Update OVS pipeline document (#5412)
antrea-io/antrea: docs/design/ovs-pipeline.md

scheduled an `app: web` Pod on the current Node from which the sample flows in this document are dumped. The Pod has
been assigned an IP address `10.10.0.19` from the Antrea CNI, so you will see the IP address shown in the associated
flows.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: web-app-db-network-policy
  namespace: default
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: web
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
    - Egress
  ingress:
    - from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
  egress:
    - to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: db
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 3306
```

## Kubernetes Service Implementation

Like K8s NetworkPolicy, several tables of the pipeline are dedicated to [Kubernetes
Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) implementation (table [NodePortMark],
[SessionAffinity], [ServiceLB], and [EndpointDNAT]).

By enabling `proxyAll`, ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, and ExternalIP are all handled by AntreaProxy. Otherwise,

> only in-cluster ClusterIP is supporlusterIP is handled. ted. In this document, we use the sample K8s Services below.

Author: Yes, I have recovered the sentence.

```

Flows 1-4 are installed for the egress rule in the sample K8s NetworkPolicy. These flows are described as follows:

- Flow 1 is to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.24}, which has all IP addresses of the Pods
  selected by the label `app: web`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 2 is to match packets with the destination IP address in set {10.10.0.25}, which has all IP addresses of the Pods
  selected by the label `app: db`, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 3 is to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {3306} specified in the rule, constituting the third
  dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 4 is to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2 and forward them to
  table [EgressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `EgressRuleCTLabel`.

Flow 5 is the table-miss flow to forward packets not matched by other flows to table [EgressDefaultRule].

### EgressDefaultRule

This table complements table [EgressRule] for K8s NetworkPolicy egress rule implementation. When a NetworkPolicy is

> applied to a set of Pods, and the default behavior for these Pods becomes "deny" (it becomes an [isolated
> Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#isolated-and-non-isolated-pods)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applied to a set of Pods, and the default behavior for these Pods becomes "deny" (they become [isolated
Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#isolated-and-non-isolated-pods)).
```

- Flow 1 is utilized to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.26}, which is from the Pods selected
  by the label `app: client`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3.
- Flow 2 is utilized to match packets with the output port OVS in set {0x25}, which has all ports of the Pods selected
  by the label `app: web`, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3.
- Flow 3 is utilized to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {80} specified in the rule, constituting
  the third dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3.
- Flow 4 is utilized to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3 and forward
  them to table [IngressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `IngressRuleCTLabel`.

Flow 5 is the table-miss flow to forward packets not matched by other flows to table [IngressDefaultRule].

### IngressDefaultRule

This table is similar in its purpose to table [EgressDefaultRule], and it complements table [IngressRule] for K8s
NetworkPolicy ingress rule implementation. In Kubernetes, when a NetworkPolicy is applied to a set of Pods, the default

> behavior for these Pods becomes "deny" (it becomes an [isolated
> Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#isolated-and-non-isolated-pods)). This

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
behavior for these Pods becomes "deny" (they become [isolated
Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#isolated-and-non-isolated-pods)). This
```

2. table=IngressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=-new,ct_label=0x3/0xffffffff,ip actions=goto_table:ConntrackCommit
3. table=IngressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=+new,ct_label=0x6/0xffffffff,ip actions=goto_table:ConntrackCommit
4. table=IngressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=-new,ct_label=0x6/0xffffffff,ip actions=goto_table:ConntrackCommit
5. table=IngressMetric, priority=200,reg0=0x400/0x400,reg3=0x4 actions=drop
6. table=IngressMetric, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackCommit
```

Flows 1-2, matching packets with `IngressRuleCTLabel` set to 3 (the `conj_id` allocated for the sample K8s NetworkPolicy
ingress rule and loaded in table [IngressRule] flow 4), are used to collect metrics for the ingress rule.

Flows 3-4, matching packets with `IngressRuleCTLabel` set to 6 (the `conj_id` allocated for the sample Antrea-native
NetworkPolicy ingress rule and loaded in table [IngressRule] flow 6), are used to collect metrics for the ingress rule.

Flow 5 is the drop rule for the sample Antrea-native NetworkPolicy ingress rule. It drops the packets with
`APDenyRegMark` loaded in table [AntreaPolicyIngressRule] flow 9, and `APConjIDField` set to 4 (the `conj_id` allocated

> for the egress rule and loaded in table [AntreaPolicyIngressRule] flow 9).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the ingress rule and loaded in table [AntreaPolicyIngressRule] flow 9).
```

Author: Good catch!

Flow 6 is the table-miss flow.

### ConntrackCommit

This table is in charge of committing non-Service connections in `CtZone`.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackCommit, priority=200,ct_state=+new+trk-snat,ct_mark=0/0x10,ip actions=ct(commit,table=Output,zone=65520,exec(move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))
2. table=ConntrackCommit, priority=0 actions=goto_table:Output
```

Flow 1 is designed to match the first packet of non-Service connections with the "tracked" state and `NotServiceCTMark`.
Then it commits the relevant connections in `CtZone`, persisting the value of `PktSourceField` to
`ConnSourceCTMarkField`, and forwards the packets to table [Output].

> Flow 2 is table-miss flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flow 2 is the table-miss flow.
```

    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: web
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
      name: AllowFromClient
    - action: Drop
  egress:
    - action: Allow
      to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: db
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 3306
      name: AllowToDB
    - action: Drop
```

## Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy Implementation

In addition to layer 3 and layer 4 policies mentioned above, [Antrea Layer 7 NetworkPolicy](../antrea-l7-network-policy.md)
is also supported in Antrea. The main difference is that Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy uses layer 7 protocol to match
traffic, not layer 3 or layer 4 protocol.

Consider the following Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy in the Application tier as an example for the remainder of this
document.

This ACNP is applied to all Pods with the label `app: client` in all Namespaces. For these Pods, egress DNS traffic on
port 53 and egress HTTP traffic to host `*.bar.com` is allowed.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterNetworkPolicy
metadata:

>   name: allow-web-access-to-internal-domain

Author: > do you feel like this policy provides significant value?

No, just one for ingress, and another for egress. I think we can remove it.

4. table=SpoofGuard, priority=200,ip,in_port="db-755c6-5080e3",dl_src=36:48:21:a2:9d:b4,nw_src=10.10.0.25 actions=goto_table:UnSNAT
5. table=SpoofGuard, priority=0 actions=drop
```

Flow 1 is for case 1, matching packets received from the local Antrea gateway port without checking the source IP and MAC
address. There are some cases where the source IP of the packets through the local Antrea gateway port is not the local
Antrea gateway IP:

- When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy, and `AntreaProxy` is not enabled, packets from local Pods destined for Services
  will first go through the gateway, get load-balanced by the kube-proxy data path (DNAT) then re-enter through the
  gateway. Then the packets are received on the gateway port with a source IP belonging to a local Pod.
- When Antrea is deployed without kube-proxy, and both `AntreaProxy` and `proxyAll` are enabled, packets from the external
  network destined for Services will be routed to OVS through the gateway without changing the source IP.
- When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy, and `AntreaProxy` is enabled, packets from the external network destined for

>   Services will get load-balanced by the kube-proxy data path (DNAT) and then routed to OVS through the gateway without SNAT.

Author: You reminded me. Just as you said. I'll refine this part.

```text
1. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.253 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
2. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.10.0.1 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
3. table=UnSNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackZone
```

Flow 1 matches reply packets for Service connections where they were SNAT'd with the *Virtual Service IP* `169.254.0.253`
and invokes action `ct` on them. For the packets, the destination IP of them is the *Virtual Service IP*.

Flow 2 matches packets for Service connections where they were SNAT'd with the local Antrea gateway IP `10.10.0.1` and
invokes action `ct` on them. For the packets, the destination IP of them is the local Antrea gateway IP. This flow also
matches request packets destined for the local Antrea gateway IP from local Pods by accident. However, this is harmless
since such connections will never be committed with `SNATCtZone`, and therefore, connection tracking fields for the
packets are unset.

Flow 3 is the table-miss flow.

For reply packets from SNAT'd connections, whose destination IP is the translated SNAT IP, after invoking action `ct`,

> the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP before SNAT is stored in the connection tracking

Author: How about this? 

`the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP stored in the connection tracking field ct_nw_dst before SNAT.` 

The main branch of the sentence is `the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP before SNAT`, and `stored in the connection tracking field ct_nw_dst` is used as the adjective of `the original IP`.

state associated with `SNATCtZone` will be inaccessible. This transition occurs because the "tracked" state shifts to
another state associated with `CtZone`. A ct zone is similar in spirit to the more generic Linux network namespaces,
uniquely containing a "tracked" state within each ct zone.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackZone, priority=200,ip actions=ct(table=ConntrackState,zone=65520,nat)
2. table=ConntrackZone, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackState
```

Flow 1 invokes `ct` action on packets from all connections, and the packets are then forwarded to table [ConntrackState]
with the "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`. Note that for packets in an established Service (DNATed) connection,
not the first packet of a Service connection, DNAT or un-DNAT is performed on them  before they are forwarded.

Flow 2 is the table-miss flow that should remain unused.

### ConntrackState

This table handles packets from the connections that have a "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`. It addresses
specific cases:

1. Dropping invalid packets reported by conntrack.

> 2. Forwarding tracked sequencing packets from all connections to table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] directly, bypassing the

Author: I was wondering to mean that the subsequent packets of the first packet in a connection. I think "tracked" is enough. "sequencing" can be removed.

2. table=PreRoutingClassifier, priority=0 actions=goto_table:NodePortMark
```

Flow 1 sequentially resubmits packets to tables [NodePortMark], [SessionAffinity], and [ServiceLB]. Note that packets
are forwarded to table [ServiceLB] finally. In tables [NodePortMark] and [SessionAffinity], only reg marks are loaded.

Flow 2 is the table-miss flow that should remain unused.

### NodePortMark

This table is designed to potentially mark packets destined for NodePort Services. It is only created when `proxyAll` is
enabled.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=NodePortMark, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.176.25.100 actions=set_field:0x80000/0x80000->reg4
2. table=NodePortMark, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=192.168.77.102 actions=set_field:0x80000/0x80000->reg4
3. table=NodePortMark, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.252 actions=set_field:0x80000/0x80000->reg4
4. table=NodePortMark, priority=0 actions=goto_table:SessionAffinity
```

Flows 1-2 match packets destined for the local Node from local Pods. `NodePortRegMark` is loaded, indicating that the

> packets are potentially destined for NodePort Services.

Author: `10.176.25.100` is the IP address of another interface on the sample Node. I should have added a note about that.

9. table=ServiceLB, priority=200,tcp,nw_dst=192.168.77.151,tp_dst=80 actions=set_field:0x200/0x200->reg0,set_field:0x20000/0x70000->reg4,set_field:0x12->reg7,group:18
10. table=ServiceLB, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EndpointDNAT
```

Flow 1 or flow 2 is designed for case 1, matching the first packet of connections destined for the sample [ClusterIP
without Endpoint] or [ClusterIP]. This is achieved by matching `EpToSelectRegMark` loaded in table [SessionAffinity],
clusterIP, and port. The target of the packet matched by the flow is an OVS group where the Endpoint will be selected.
Before forwarding the packet to the OVS group, `RewriteMACRegMark` that will be consumed in table [L3Forwarding] is
loaded, indicating that the source and destination MAC addresses of the packets should be rewritten. `EpSelectedRegMark`
that will be consumed in table [EndpointDNAT] is also loaded, indicating that the Endpoint is selected. Note that the
Service Endpoint selection is not completed yet, as it will be done in the target OVS group. The action is set here to
support more Endpoints in an OVS group. Refer to PR [#2101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/2101) for more

> information.

Author: Make sense to me.

Flow 3 is for case 2, matching the first packet of connections destined for the sample [NodePort]. This is achieved by
matching `EpToSelectRegMark` loaded in table [SessionAffinity], `NodePortRegMark` loaded in table [NodePortMark], and
NodePort port. Similar to flows 1-2, `RewriteMACRegMark` and `EpSelectedRegMark` are also loaded.

Flow 4 is for case 3, processing the first packet of connections destined for the ingress IP of the sample
[LoadBalancer], similar to flow 1.

Flow 5 is for case 4, processing the first packet of connections destined for the external IP of the sample [Service
with ExternalIP], similar to flow 1.

Flow 6 is the initial process for case 5, matching the first packet of connections destined for the sample [Service with
Session Affinity]. This is achieved by matching the conditions similar to flow 1. Like flow 1, the target of the flow is
also an OVS group, and `RewriteMACRegMark` is loaded. The difference is that `EpToLearnRegMark` is loaded, rather than
`EpSelectedRegMark`, indicating that the selected Endpoint needs to be cached.

> Flow 7 is the final process for case 5, matching the packet previously matched by flow 6, sent back from the target OVS

Author: Make sense. It is the `resubmit` action that "sends" the packets back to this table.

loaded, indicating that the Service has no Endpoint, and then packets are forwarded to table [EndpointDNAT].

The second group with `group_id` 10 is the destination of packets matched by flow 2, designed for a Service with
Endpoints. The group has 2 buckets, indicating the availability of 2 selectable Endpoints. Each bucket has an equal
chance of being chosen since they have the same weights. For every bucket, the Endpoint IP and Endpoint port are loaded
into `EndpointIPField` and `EndpointPortField`, respectively. These loaded values will be consumed in table
[EndpointDNAT] to which the packets are forwarded and in which DNAT will be performed. `RemoteEndpointRegMark` is loaded
for remote Endpoints, like the bucket with `bucket_id` 1 in this group.

The third group with `group_id` 11 is the destination of packets matched by flow 6, designed for a Service that has
Endpoints and is configured with session affinity. The group closely resembles the group with `group_id` 10, except that
the destination of the packets is table [ServiceLB], rather than table [EndpointDNAT]. After being sent back to table
[ServiceLB], they will be matched by flow 7.

### EndpointDNAT

> The table implements DNAT for Service connection after Endpoint selection is performed in table [ServiceLB].

Reviewer 2: s/Service connection/Service connections

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following::

```text
1. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,reg0=0x4000/0x4000 actions=controller(reason=no_match,id=62373,userdata=04)
2. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,tcp,reg3=0xa0a0018,reg4=0x20050/0x7ffff actions=ct(commit,table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule,zone=65520,nat(dst=10.10.0.24:80),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark,move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))

> 3. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,tcp,reg3=0xa0a0106,reg4=0x20050/0x7ffff actions=ct(commit,table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule,zone=65520,nat(dst=10.10.1.6:80),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark,move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))

Reviewer 2: quick question out of curiosity: OVS does not let us invoke the `nat` action with a `dst` value stored in a register? I didn't remember that we had individual flows for each endpoint her.

cc @wenyingd @tnqn

Reviewer 3: The doc says:

> nat(type=addrs[:ports][,flag]...)
>
> The src and dst options take the following arguments:
> 
> addrs
> The IP address addr or range addr1-addr2 from which the translated address should be selected. If only one address is given, then that address will always be selected, otherwise the address selection can be informed by the optional persistent flag as described below. Either IPv4 or IPv6 addresses can be provided, but both addresses must be of the same type, and the datapath behavior is undefined in case of providing IPv4 address range for an IPv6 packet, or IPv6 address range for an IPv4 packet. IPv6 addresses must be bracketed with [ and ] if a port range is also given.

So the answer should be no.

> 4. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=190,reg4=0x20000/0x70000 actions=set_field:0x10000/0x70000->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB)

Reviewer 2: I noticed that you didn't describe this flow below. Can you add a quick description?

Author: Will add. I forgot the description of flows 4 and 5 in this table.

  selected by the label `app: web`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 7.
- Flow 4 is used to match packets with the destination IP address in set {10.10.0.25}, which has all IP addresses of
  the Pods selected by the label `app: db`, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 7.
- Flow 5 is used to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {3306} specified in the rule, constituting the
  third dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 7.
- Flow 6 is used to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 7 and forward them
  to table [EgressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `EgressRuleCTLabel` that will be consumed in table [EgressMetric].

Flows 7-9, whose priorities are all 14499, are installed for the egress rule with a `Drop` action defined after the rule
`AllowToDB` in the sample policy, serves as a default rule. Unlike the default of K8s NetworkPolicy, Antrea-native
NetworkPolicy has no default rule, and all rules should be explicitly defined. Hence, they are evaluated as-is, and

> there is no need for a table [AntreaPolicyEgressDefaultRule]. These flows are described as follows:

Author: Make sense.  

Should it be `Antrea-native NetworkPolicy does not have the same default isolated behavior as K8s NetworkPolicy (implemented in the [EgressDefaultRule] table)`?

> there is no need for a table [AntreaPolicyEgressDefaultRule]. These flows are described as follows:

Reviewer 2: yes, my bad. Thanks.

> there is no need for a table [AntreaPolicyEgressDefaultRule]. These flows are described as follows:

Reviewer 2: That's because the table doesn't actually exist :) ... This will be removed once the comment above is addressed, so I'm resolving this conversation.

- Flow 7 is used to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.24}, which is from the Pods selected
  by the label `app: web`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 5.

> - Flow 8 is used to match any packets, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 5.

Reviewer 2: let's just add one sentence about it at the end of the bullet point:

> This flow, which matches all packets, exists because we need at least 2 dimensions for a conjunctive match.

> - Flow 8 is used to match any packets, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 5.

Author: Will add

3. table=EgressMark, priority=210,ip,nw_dst=10.96.0.0/12 actions=set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
4. table=EgressMark, priority=200,ip,in_port="client-6-3353ef" actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_src,set_field:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff->eth_dst,set_field:192.168.77.113->tun_dst,set_field:0x10/0xf0->reg0,set_field:0x80000/0x80000->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
5. table=EgressMark, priority=200,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,tun_dst=192.168.77.112 actions=set_field:0x1/0xff->pkt_mark,set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
6. table=EgressMark, priority=200,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,in_port="web-7975-274540" actions=set_field:0x1/0xff->pkt_mark,set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
7. table=EgressMark, priority=190,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,reg0=0x1/0xf actions=drop
8. table=EgressMark, priority=0 actions=set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
```

Flows 1-2 match packets originating from local Pods and destined for the transport IP of remote Nodes, and then forward
them to table [L2ForwardingCalc] to skip Egress SNAT. `ToGatewayRegMark` is loaded, indicating that the output port of
the packets is the local Antrea gateway.

> Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Service CIDR, and then forwards them to table

Author: How about this:

```
Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Service CIDR, and then forwards them to table
[L2ForwardingCalc] to bypass the Pod-to-Service traffic from Egress SNAT. Similar to flows 1-2, `ToGatewayRegMark` is
also loaded.
```

> Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Service CIDR, and then forwards them to table

Reviewer 2: I don't think this answers my question. What I don't understand is why this flow is even needed.
If I look at the L3Forwarding table description above, these are the 2 flows that send packets to this table (EgressMark):

> Flow 8 matches request packets originating from local Pods and destined for the external network...

> Flow 9 matches request packets originating from remote Pods and destined for the external network...

What this means is that in this table I would only expect packets destined for the external network, so to me if a packet is destined to the Service CIDR, it doesn't really qualify as "external network".

What I'm guess is that this flow is installed for the case where a Service is added to the `skipServices` configuration parameter (and maybe the case where AntreaProxy is disabled). Does this match your understanding? If yes we should make it clear in the description of this flow (flow 3).

> Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Service CIDR, and then forwards them to table

Author: > What I'm guess is that this flow is installed for the case where a Service is added to the skipServices configuration parameter (and maybe the case where AntreaProxy is disabled). Does this match your understanding? If yes we should make it clear in the description of this flow (flow 3).

You are right. I found that in PR #5494. I'll refine the description of flow 3.

> Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Service CIDR, and then forwards them to table

Author: Done

[L2ForwardingCalc] to skip Egress SNAT. Similar to flows 1-2, `ToGatewayRegMark` is also loaded.

> Flow 4 match packets originating from local Pods selected by the sample Egress `egress-client`, whose SNAT IP is configured

Author: Will add.

decremented again.

Flow 2 is to decrement TTL for packets which are not matched by flow 1.

Flow 3 is the table-miss flow that should remain unused.

### SNATMark

This table marks connections requiring SNAT within the OVS pipeline, distinct from Egress SNAT handled by iptables.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=SNATMark, priority=200,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,reg0=0x22/0xff actions=ct(commit,table=SNAT,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0x20/0x20->ct_mark,set_field:0x40/0x40->ct_mark))
2. table=SNATMark, priority=200,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,reg0=0x12/0xff,reg4=0x200000/0x2200000 actions=ct(commit,table=SNAT,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0x20/0x20->ct_mark))
3. table=SNATMark, priority=190,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,nw_src=10.10.0.23,nw_dst=10.10.0.23 actions=ct(commit,table=SNAT,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0x20/0x20->ct_mark,set_field:0x40/0x40->ct_mark))
4. table=SNATMark, priority=190,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,nw_src=10.10.0.24,nw_dst=10.10.0.24 actions=ct(commit,table=SNAT,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0x20/0x20->ct_mark,set_field:0x40/0x40->ct_mark))
5. table=SNATMark, priority=0 actions=goto_table:SNAT
```

> Flow 1 matches the first packet of hairpin Service connections, identified by `FromGatewayRegMark` and `ToGatewayRegMark`,

Author: Yes, it should be specific to `proxyAll`. The use cases are:

- encap mode,  a client from the external network or the local Node, destines for a Service, and the Endpoint is a hostNetwork Pod or an external link.
- noEncap mode,  a client from the external network or the local Node, destines for a Service, and the Endpoint is a hostNetwork Pod, a remote non-hostNetwork Pod or an external link.

> Flow 1 matches the first packet of hairpin Service connections, identified by `FromGatewayRegMark` and `ToGatewayRegMark`,

Reviewer 2: Ok, we should mention that it is required for `proxyAll` in the flow description.

Do you know why the flow is installed even when proxyAll is disabled? Is it for simplicity and because it is harmless?

> Flow 1 matches the first packet of hairpin Service connections, identified by `FromGatewayRegMark` and `ToGatewayRegMark`,

Author: > Ok, we should mention that it is required for proxyAll in the flow description

Will add.

> Do you know why the flow is installed even when proxyAll is disabled? Is it for simplicity and because it is harmless?

Yes, just for simplicity and it is harmless when `proxyAll` is not enabled.

> Flow 1 matches the first packet of hairpin Service connections, identified by `FromGatewayRegMark` and `ToGatewayRegMark`,

Author: Flow 2 should be also specific to `proxyAll`.

the port `antrea-l7-tap0` specifically created for connecting to an application-aware engine. Notably, these packets are pushed
with an 802.1Q header and loaded with the VLAN ID value persisted in `L7NPRuleVlanIDCTLabel` before being output, due to
the implementation of `L7NetworkPolicy`.

Flow 2 is for case 2. It matches packets with `TrafficControlMirrorRegMark` and `OutputToOFPortRegMark`, and then
outputs them to the port specified in `TargetOFPortField` and the port specified in `TrafficControlTargetOFPortField`.

Flow 3 is for case 3. It matches packets with `TrafficControlRedirectRegMark` and `OutputToOFPortRegMark`, and then
outputs them to the port specified in `TrafficControlTargetOFPortField`.

Flow 4 is for case 4. It matches packets from hairpin connections by matching `HairpinCTMark` and outputs them back to the
port where they were received.

Flow 5 is for case 5. It matches packets by matching `OutputToOFPortRegMark` and outputs them to the OVS port specified by
the value stored in `TargetOFPortField`.

Flows 6-7 are for case 6. They match packets by matching `OutputToControllerRegMark` and the value stored in

> `PacketInOperationField`, then output them to the OpenFlow controller (Antrea Agent) with corresponding user data.

Reviewer 2: Add the following at the end of the paragraph:

> In practice, you will see additional flows similar to these ones to accommodate different scenarios (different `PacketInOperationField` values). Note that packets sent to controller are metered to avoid overrunning the Antrea Agent and using too many resources.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.253 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
2. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.10.0.1 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
3. table=UnSNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackZone
```

Flow 1 matches reply packets for Service connections which were SNAT'd with the *Virtual Service IP* `169.254.0.253`
and invokes action `ct` on them.

Flow 2 matches packets for Service connections which were SNAT'd with the local Antrea gateway IP `10.10.0.1` and
invokes action `ct` on them. This flow also matches request packets destined for the local Antrea gateway IP from
local Pods by accident. However, this is harmless since such connections will never be committed to `SNATCtZone`, and
therefore, connection tracking fields for the packets are unset.

Flow 3 is the table-miss flow.

For reply packets from SNAT'd connections, whose destination IP is the translated SNAT IP, after invoking action `ct`,
the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP before SNAT, stored in the connection tracking

> field `ct_nw_dst` before SNAT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
field `ct_nw_dst`.
```

    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: web
  ingress:
    - name: AllowFromClientL7
      action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      l7Protocols:
        - http:
            path: "/api/v2/*"
            method: "GET"
    - action: Drop
```

## TrafficControl Implementation

[TrafficControl](../traffic-control.md) is a CRD API that manages and manipulates the transmission of Pod traffic.
Antrea creates a dedicated table [TrafficControl] to implement `TrafficControl`. Use the provided TrafficControls
as examples throughout the remainder of this document.

This is a TrafficControl applied to Pods with label `app: web`. For these Pods, all traffic from them, both
ingress and egress, will be redirected to the port `antrea-tc-tap0`, and returned via the port `antrea-tc-tap1`.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficControl
metadata:
  name: redirect-web-to-local
spec:
  appliedTo:
    podSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: web
  direction: Both
  action: Redirect
  targetPort:
    ovsInternal:
      name: antrea-tc-tap0
  returnPort:
    ovsInternal:
      name: antrea-tc-tap1
```

> This is a TrafficControl applied to Pods with label `app: db`. For these Pods, all traffic, both

Author: I don't think `traffic` is a countable noun here, I refined this:

This is a TrafficControl applied to Pods with the label `app: web`. For these Pods, both ingress and egress traffic of
them will be redirected to the port `antrea-tc-tap0`, and returned back via the port `antrea-tc-tap1`.

2. table=ARPResponder, priority=190,arp actions=NORMAL
3. table=ARPResponder, priority=0 actions=drop
```

Flow 1 is designed for case 1, matching ARP request packets for the MAC address of a remote Antrea gateway with IP address
`10.10.1.1`. It programs an ARP reply packet and sends it back to the port where the request packet was received. Note
that both the source hardware address and the source MAC address in the ARP reply packet are set with the *Global Virtual
MAC* `aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff`, not the actual MAC address of the remote Antrea gateway. This ensures that once the traffic is
received by the remote OVS bridge, it can be directly forwarded to the appropriate Pod without actually going through
the gateway. The *Global Virtual MAC* is used as the destination MAC address for all the traffic being tunneled or routed.

This flow serves as the "ARP responder" for the peer Node whose local Pod subnet is `10.10.1.0/24`. If we were to look

> at the routing table for the local Node, we would find the following "onlink" route:

Author: This is from the original document, do we need to change it?

```text
10.10.1.0/24 via 10.10.1.1 dev antrea-gw0 onlink
```

A similar route is installed on the local Antrea gateway (antrea-gw0) interface every time the Antrea *Node Route Controller*
is notified that a new Node has joined the cluster. The route must be marked as "onlink" since the kernel does not have

> a route to the peer gateway `10.10.1.1`: we trick the kernel into believing that `10.10.1.1` is directly connected to

Author: Good catch!

4. table=ConntrackState, priority=0 actions=goto_table:PreRoutingClassifier
```

Flow 1 is for case 1, dropping invalid packets.

Flow 2 is for case 2, matching packets from non-Service connections with `NotServiceCTMark` and forwarding them to
table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] directly, bypassing the tables for Service Endpoint selection.

Flow 3 is also for case 2, matching packets from Service connections with `ServiceCTMark` loaded in table
[EndpointDNAT] and forwarding them to table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule], bypassing the tables for Service Endpoint
selection. `RewriteMACRegMark`, which is used in table [L3Forwarding], is loaded in this flow, indicating that the
source and destination MAC addresses of the packets should be rewritten.

Flow 4 is the table-miss flow for case 3, matching packets from all new connections and forwarding them to table
[PreRoutingClassifier] to start the processing of Service Endpoint selection.

### PreRoutingClassifier

This table handles the first packet from uncommitted Service connections before Service Endpoint selection. It
sequentially resubmits the packets to tables [NodePortMark] and [SessionAffinity] to do some pre-processing, including

> the loading of specific reg marks. Subsequently, it forwards the packets to table [ServiceLB] to perform Service Endpoint

Author: Yes, packets are processed in these table one-by-one.

    set_field:0x20000/0x70000->reg4,goto_table:EndpointDNAT
11. table=ServiceLB, priority=200,tcp,reg4=0x10000/0x70000,nw_dst=192.168.77.200,tp_dst=80 actions=set_field:0x200/0x200->reg0,set_field:0x20000/0x70000->reg4,set_field:0x10->reg7,group:16
12. table=ServiceLB, priority=200,tcp,reg4=0x10000/0x70000,nw_dst=192.168.77.201,tp_dst=80 actions=set_field:0x200/0x200->reg0,set_field:0x30000/0x70000->reg4,set_field:0x11->reg7,group:17
13. table=ServiceLB, priority=190,tcp,reg4=0x30000/0x70000,nw_dst=192.168.77.201,tp_dst=80 actions=learn(table=SessionAffinity,hard_timeout=300,priority=200,delete_learned,cookie=0x203000000000a,\
    eth_type=0x800,nw_proto=6,NXM_OF_TCP_DST[],NXM_OF_IP_DST[],NXM_OF_IP_SRC[],load:NXM_NX_REG4[0..15]->NXM_NX_REG4[0..15],load:NXM_NX_REG4[26]->NXM_NX_REG4[26],load:NXM_NX_REG3[]->NXM_NX_REG3[],load:0x2->NXM_NX_REG4[16..18],load:0x1->NXM_NX_REG0[9]),\
    set_field:0x20000/0x70000->reg4,goto_table:EndpointDNAT
14. table=ServiceLB, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EndpointDNAT
```

Flow 1 or flow 2 is designed for case 1, matching the first packet of connections destined for a ClusterIP Service. This

> is achieved by matching `EpToSelectRegMark`, which is loaded in table [SessionAffinity], clusterIP, and port. The target

Author: `which is loaded in table [SessionAffinity]` is for `EpToSelectRegMark`.  I have refined it like this and it is more readable:

Thisis achieved by matching `EpToSelectRegMark` loaded in table [SessionAffinity], clusterIP, and port

as it will be done in the target OVS group. The action is set here to support more Endpoints in an
OVS group. Refer to PR [#2101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/2101) for more information.

Flow 3 is the initial process for case 2, matching the first packet of connections destined for a ClusterIP Service configured
with session affinity. This is achieved by matching the conditions similar to flow 1. Like flow 1, the target of the
flow is also an OVS group, and `RewriteMACRegMark` is loaded. The difference is that `EpToLearnRegMark` is loaded, rather
than `EpSelectedRegMark`, indicating that the selected Endpoint needs to be cached.

Flow 4 is the final process for case 2, matching the packet previously matched by flow 2, sent back from the target OVS
group after selecting an Endpoint. Then a learned flow will be generated in table [SessionAffinity] to match the packets
of the subsequent connections from the same client IP, ensuring that the packets are always forwarded to the same Endpoint
selected the first time. `EpSelectedRegMark`, which will be used in table [EndpointDNAT], is loaded, indicating that
Service Endpoint selection has been done.

> 

Author: I thought of `indicating that Service Endpoint selection has been done.` is used as `adverbial clause`

3. group_id=11,type=select,\
   bucket=bucket_id:0,weight:100,actions=set_field:0xa0a0018->reg3,set_field:0x50/0xffff->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB),\
   bucket=bucket_id:1,weight:100,actions=set_field:0x4000000/0x4000000->reg4,set_field:0xa0a0106->reg3,set_field:0x50/0xffff->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB)
```

Group 1 is the destination of packets matched by flow 1, designed for a Service without Endpoints. The group only has a
single bucket where `SvcNoEpRegMark`, to be used in table [EndpointDNAT], is loaded, indicating that the Service has no
Endpoint, and then packets are forwarded to table [EndpointDNAT]. It's important to note that any Services lacking
Endpoints share the same target group as group 9.

Group 2 is the destination of packets matched by flow 2, designed for a Service with Endpoints. The group has 2 buckets,
indicating the availability of 2 selectable Endpoints. Each bucket has an equal chance of being chosen since they have
the same weights. For every bucket, the Endpoint IP and Endpoint port are loaded into `EndpointIPField` and

> `EndpointPortField`, respectively. These loaded values are consumed in table [EndpointDNAT], the destination of the

Author: Why removing the comma?

17. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=44879,conj_id=13,ip actions=set_field:0xd->reg5,ct(commit,table=EgressMetric,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0xd00000000/0xffffffff00000000->ct_label,set_field:0x80/0x80->ct_mark,set_field:0x40000000000000000/0xfff0000000000000000->ct_label))
18. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EgressRule
```

Flows 1-2, which are installed by default, hold the highest priorities, matching non-new and "tracked" packets and
forwarding them to table [EgressMetric] to bypass the check from egress rules. This means that if a connection is
established, its packets go straight to table [EgressMetric], with no other match required. In particular, this ensures
that reply traffic is never dropped because of an Antrea-native NetworkPolicy or Kubernetes NetworkPolicy rule. However,
this also means that ongoing connections are not affected if the Antrea-native NetworkPolicy or the Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy is updated.

Flows 3-6, whose priorities are all 44900, are installed for the egress rule `AllowToDb` in the sample policy. These
flows are described as follows:

> - Flow 3 is utilized to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.24}, which has all IP addresses of

Author: It can be removed, but I think it is oaky to reserve it. If I removed all `utilized`, I also need to tweak these lines by moving another word from the next line, and another word to the next line from the next next line, and next....

5. table=EgressRule, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EgressDefaultRule
```

Flows 1-4 are installed for the egress rule in the sample Kubernetes NetworkPolicy. These flows are described as follows:

- Flow 1 is utilized to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.24}, which has all IP addresses of the
  Pods selected by label `app: web`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 2 is utilized to match packets with the destination IP address in set {10.10.0.25}, which has all IP addresses of
  the Pods selected by label `app: db`, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 3 is utilized to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {3306} specified in the rule, constituting
  the third dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 4 is utilized to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2 and forward
  them to table [EgressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `EgressRuleCTLabel`.

Flow 5 is the table-miss flow to forward packets, which are not matched by other flows, to table [EgressDefaultRule].

### EgressDefault

> This table complements table [EgressRule] for Kubernetes NetworkPolicy egress rule implementation. In Kubernetes, when a

Reviewer: I thin `In Kubernetes,` can be removed

  VXLAN, GRE, or STT tunnel.
- *Antrea-native NetworkPolicy*: Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy and Antrea NetworkPolicy CRDs, as documented
  [here](../antrea-network-policy.md).
- *Service session affinity*: a Service feature that selects the same backend Pod for connections from a
  particular client. For a Kubernetes Service, session affinity can be enabled by setting `service.spec.sessionAffinity`
  to `ClientIP` (default is `None`). See [Kubernetes Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
  for more information about session affinity.

### OpenFlow

- *table-miss flow*: a "catch-all" flow in an OpenFlow table, which is used if no other flow is matched. If the table-miss
  flow does not exist, by default packets unmatched by flows are dropped (discarded).
- *action `conjunction`*: an efficient way in OVS to implement conjunctive matches, is a match for which multiple fields
  are required to match conjunctively, each within a set of acceptable values. See [OVS
  fields](http://www.openvswitch.org/support/dist-docs/ovs-fields.7.txt) for more information.

> - action `normal`*: OpenFlow defines this action to submit a packet to "the traditional non-OpenFlow pipeline of

Author: Good catch!

|-------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------|
| bits 0-31   | IngressRuleCTLabel    | Ingress rule ID.                   |
| bits 32-63  | EgressRuleCTLabel     | Egress rule ID.                    |
| bits 64-75  | L7NPRuleVlanIDCTLabel | VLAN ID for L7 NetworkPolicy rule. |

## OVS Ct Zone

We use some OVS conntrack zones to isolate connection tracking rules. To enhance usability, we assign friendly names to
the ct zones.

| Zone ID | Zone Name    | Description                                        |
|---------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| 65520   | CtZone       | Tracking IPv4 connections that don't require SNAT. |
| 65521   | SNATCtZone   | Tracking IPv4 connections that require SNAT.       |

## Kubernetes NetworkPolicy Implementation

Several tables of the pipeline are dedicated to [Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) implementation (table
[EgressRule], [EgressDefaultRule], [IngressRule], and [IngressDefaultRule]).

In this document, the Kubernetes NetworkPolicy example below is used to explain how these simple ingress and egress

> rules are mapped to flows in the pipeline.

Author: Done

Because Antrea will only install OVS flows for this Kubernetes NetworkPolicy on Nodes that have Pods selected by the
policy, we have scheduled an `app: web` Pod on the current Node from which the sample flows in this document are dumped.
The Pod has been assigned an IP address `10.10.0.19` from the Antrea CNI, so you will see the IP address shown in the
associated flows.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: web-app-db-network-policy
  namespace: default
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: web
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
    - Egress
  ingress:
    - from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
  egress:
    - to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: db
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 3306
```

## Kubernetes Service Implementation

Like Kubernetes NetworkPolicy, several tables of the pipeline are dedicated to [Kubernetes
Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) implementation (table [NodePortMark],
[SessionAffinity], [ServiceLB], and [EndpointDNAT]).

> By enabling `proxyAll`, ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, and ExternalIP are all supported. Otherwise, only in-cluster

Reviewer 2: s/are all supported/are all handled by AntreaProxy

> ClusterIP is supported. In this document, we use the sample Kubernetes Services below. These Services select Pods with

Reviewer 2: s/supported/handled

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sample-clusterip-no-ep
spec:
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  clusterIP: 10.101.255.29
```

### ClusterIP

A sample ClusterIP Service with `clusterIP` set to `10.105.31.235`.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sample-clusterip
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  clusterIP: 10.105.31.235
```

### ClusterIP with Session Affinity

A sample ClusterIP Service with `clusterIP` set to `10.96.76.15` configured with session affinity.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sample-clusterip-session-affinity
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  clusterIP: 10.96.76.15
  sessionAffinity: ClientIP
  sessionAffinityConfig:
    clientIP:
      timeoutSeconds: 300
```

### NodePort

A sample NodePort Service with a `nodePort` set to `30004`.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sample-nodeport
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
      nodePort: 30004
  type: NodePort
```

> ### NodePort with Session Affinity

Reviewer 2: do you think we really need all the "Session Affinity" variants? I think "ClusterIP with Session Affinity" should be enough. If there is a significant difference in the implementation between "internal" traffic and "external" traffic, let me know. But even if there is, maybe we could keep a single "external" Service with Session Affinity.

Author: We don't need all "Session Affinity" variants. It is just an attribute of Service, and the Service could be ClusterIP, NodePort, or LoadBalancer. There is no significant difference in our implementation of "Session Affinity" for different types of Services. I use a general Service to demonstrate "Session Affinity" in the latest commit.

  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  type: LoadBalancer
  sessionAffinity: ClientIP
  sessionAffinityConfig:
    clientIP:
      timeoutSeconds: 300
status:
  loadBalancer:
      ingress:
        - ip: 192.168.77.151
```

### Service with ExternalIP

A sample Service with the external IP `192.168.77.200`.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sample-service-externalip
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  externalIPs: 
    - 192.168.77.200
```

### Service with ExternalIP and Session Affinity

A sample Service with the external IP `192.168.77.201` configured with session affinity.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sample-service-externalip-session-affinity
spec:
  selector:
    app: web
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  externalIPs:
    - 192.168.77.201
  sessionAffinity: ClientIP
  sessionAffinityConfig:
    clientIP:
      timeoutSeconds: 300
```

## Antrea-native NetworkPolicy Implementation

In addition to the tables created for Kubernetes NetworkPolicy, Antrea creates additional dedicated tables to support

> the [Antrea-native NetworkPolicy](../antrea-network-policy.md) (table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] and [AntreaPolicyIngressRule]).

Reviewer 2: to support [Antrea-native NetworkPolicy]

(remove the `the` for consistency)

Consider the following Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy (ACNP) in the Application tier as an example for the remainder of
this document.

This ACNP is applied to all Pods with the label `app: web` in all Namespaces. For these Pods, only TCP traffic on port
80 from the Pods with the label `app: client` and to the Pods with the label `app: db` is allowed. Similar to Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy, Antrea will only install OVS flows for this policy on Nodes that have Pods selected by the policy. We

> still use the Pods with the label `app: web` mentioned above as the target of this policy.

Reviewer 2: I would add a quick note here to avoid creating confusion for the reader:

> This policy has very similar rules as the K8s NetworkPolicy example shown previously. This is intentional to simplify this document and to allow easier comparison between the flows generated for both types of policies. Additionally, we should emphasize that this policy applies to Pods across all Namespaces, while a K8s NetworkPolicy is always scoped to a specific Namespace (in the case of our example, the `default` Namespace).

Author: Thanks for the note. I have added it.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: web-app-db-network-policy
spec:
  priority: 5
  tier: application
  appliedTo:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: web
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
      name: AllowFromClient
    - action: Drop
  egress:
    - action: Allow
      to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: db
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 3306
      name: AllowToDB
    - action: Drop
```

## Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy Implementation

In addition to layer 3 and layer 4 policies mentioned above, [Antrea Layer 7 NetworkPolicy](../antrea-l7-network-policy.md)

> is also supported in Antrea. The main difference is that Antrea layer 7 NetworkPolicy uses layer 7 protocol to match

Reviewer 2: maybe use L7 starting from here, to reduce verbosity

traffic, not layer 3 or layer 4 protocol.

Consider the following Antrea layer 7 NetworkPolicy in the Application tier as an example for the remainder of this
document.

This ACNP is applied to all Pods with the label `app: client` in all Namespaces. For these Pods, egress DNS traffic on

> port 53 and egress HTTP traffic with host `*.bar.com` is allowed.

Reviewer 2: s/with host/to host

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-web-access-to-internal-domain
spec:
  priority: 6
  tier: application
  appliedTo:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: client
  egress:
    - name: AllowDNS
      action: Allow
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 53
        - protocol: UDP
          port: 53
    - name: AllowClientHTTP
      action: Allow
      l7Protocols:
        - http:
            host: "*.bar.com"
```

This ACNP is applied to all Pods with the label `app: web` in all Namespaces. For these Pods, only ingress HTTP
traffic with method `GET` path `/api/v2/*` from the Pods with the label `app: client` is allowed, and others will
be dropped.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1

> kind: NetworkPolicy

Reviewer 2: The text above says "This ACNP" but this policy is of type ANNP

Additionally, I would expect all the examples given in this document to "co-exist", but I am having trouble with this policy. Unless I am missing something this policy (`ingress-allow-http-request-to-api-v2`) will never actually be used, because `web-app-db-network-policy` will already allow all TCP:80 traffic from client Pods.

Author: > The text above says "This ACNP" but this policy is of type ANNP

This kind should be `ClusterNetworkPolicy`.

> I would expect all the examples given in this document to "co-exist"

Second to this. I am always expecting that the example flow can co-exist.

I have updated the policy `ingress-allow-http-request-to-api-v2`. It now matches ingress HTTP traffic on port 8080.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that will work as long as you have a catch-all ingress `Drop` rule in `web-app-db-network-policy`, which has higher priority than `ingress-allow-http-request-to-api-v2`.

```yaml
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
      name: AllowFromClient
    - action: Drop
```

As per the current version of `web-app-db-network-policy`, all ingress traffic that is not TCP:80 traffic from a Pod labelled `app: client` will be dropped.

I cannot think of a great solution. It may make sense to have a different `app` that we can apply the policy to:

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: ingress-allow-http-request-to-api-v2
spec:
  priority: 6
  tier: application
  appliedTo:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: api
  ingress:
    - name: AllowFromClientL7
      action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 8080
      l7Protocols:
        - http:
            path: "/api/v2/*"
            method: "GET"
    - action: Drop
```

The difference here is that we apply the policy to `app: api` Pods instead of `app: web`. **Alternatively, you could choose a higher priority for this priority (set it to 4), and drop the `action: Drop` catch-all rule in this policy.** You can keep the Drop catch-all rule in `web-app-db-network-policy`.

Author: > I don't think that will work as long as you have a catch-all ingress Drop rule in web-app-db-network-policy, which has higher priority than ingress-allow-http-request-to-api-v2.

You reminded me.  

> Alternatively, you could choose a higher priority for this priority (set it to 4), and drop the action: Drop catch-all rule in this policy. You can keep the Drop catch-all rule in web-app-db-network-policy.

This is a good idea! I'll update the document like this.

metadata:
  name: ingress-allow-http-request-to-api-v2
spec:
  priority: 6
  tier: application
  appliedTo:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: web
  ingress:
    - name: AllowFromClientL7
      action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      l7Protocols:
        - http:
            path: "/api/v2/*"
            method: "GET"
    - action: Drop
```

## TrafficControl Implementation

[TrafficControl](../traffic-control.md) is a CRD API that manages and manipulates the transmission of Pod traffic.

> Antrea creates a dedicated table [TrafficControl] to implement `TrafficControl`. Use the following TrafficControls

Reviewer 2: We will use the following ...

as examples throughout the remainder of this document.

This is a TrafficControl applied to Pods with the label `app: web`. For these Pods, both ingress and egress traffic of

> them will be redirected to the port `antrea-tc-tap0`, and returned back via the port `antrea-tc-tap1`.

Reviewer 2: > For these Pods, both ingress and egress traffic will be redirected to port `antrea-tc-tap0`, and will return back via port `antrea-tc-tap1`.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficControl
metadata:
  name: redirect-web-to-local
spec:
  appliedTo:
    podSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: web
  direction: Both
  action: Redirect
  targetPort:
    ovsInternal:
      name: antrea-tc-tap0
  returnPort:
    ovsInternal:
      name: antrea-tc-tap1
```

This is a TrafficControl applied to Pods with the label `app: db`. For these Pods, all traffic, both ingress and egress,

> will be mirrored to the port `antrea-tc-tap2`.

Reviewer 2: For these Pods, both ingress and egress traffic will be mirrored (duplicated) to port `antrea-tc-tap2`.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficControl
metadata:
  name: mirror-db-to-local
spec:
  appliedTo:
    podSelector:
      matchLabels:
        app: db
  direction: Both
  action: Mirror
  targetPort:
    ovsInternal:
      name: antrea-tc-tap2
```

## Egress Implementation

Table [EgressMark] is dedicated to the implementation of feature `Egress`.

Consider the following Egresses as examples for the remainder of this document.

This is an Egress applied to Pods with the label `app: web`. For these Pods, all egress traffic will be SNAT'd on Node

> `k8s-node-control-plane` from which we dumped flows in the document with the IP `192.168.77.102`, the transport

Reviewer 2: I find it quite confusing that you used the Node's transport IP as the Egress IP, as it is not the typical use case. Maybe we could use a different IP from the same subnet?

Author: Update the Egress IP to `192.168.77.112` and `192.168.77.113`. I think this should be a typical use case since the Egress IPs and the Node's transport IPs are in the same CIDR after asking @tnqn for advice.

Reviewer 2: Yes, Egress IPs will typically be from the same subnet as the transport IPs, but will be distinct from transport IPs.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following::

```text
1. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,reg0=0x4000/0x4000 actions=controller(reason=no_match,id=62373,userdata=04)
2. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,tcp,reg3=0xa0a0018,reg4=0x20050/0x7ffff actions=ct(commit,table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule,zone=65520,nat(dst=10.10.0.24:80),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark,move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))
3. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,tcp,reg3=0xa0a0106,reg4=0x20050/0x7ffff actions=ct(commit,table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule,zone=65520,nat(dst=10.10.1.6:80),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark,move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))
4. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=190,reg4=0x20000/0x70000 actions=set_field:0x10000/0x70000->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB)
5. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule
```

Flow 1 is designed for Services without Endpoints. It identifies the first packet of connections destined for such Service
by matching `SvcNoEpRegMark`. Subsequently, the packet is forwarded to the OpenFlow controller (Antrea Agent) for

> further processing.

Reviewer 2: I think it wouldn't hurt to indicate what "further processing" is here: for TCP Service traffic we will send a TCP RST, and for all other cases we will send an ICMP Destination Unreachable message.

Author: Done, second to you on this point.

Flows 2-3 are designed for Services that have selected an Endpoint. These flows identify the first packet of connections
destined for such Services by matching `EndpointPortField`, which stores the Endpoint IP, and `EpUnionField` (a combination
of `EndpointPortField` storing the Endpoint port and `EpSelectedRegMark`). Then `ct` action is invoked on the packet,

> performing DNAT'd and forwarding it to table [ConntrackStateTable] with the "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`.

Reviewer 2: the link to `[ConntrackStateTable]` is not rendering correctly

Author: Fixed

  Nodes. This simplifies networking by enabling all Nodes to use this MAC address instead of the actual MAC address of
  the appropriate remote gateway. This allows each OVS to act as a "proxy" for the local gateway when receiving
  tunneled traffic and directly take care of the packet forwarding. Currently, we use a hard-coded value of
  `aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff`.
- *Virtual Service IP*: a virtual IP address used as the source IP address for hairpin Service connections through the
  Antrea gateway port. Currently, we use a hard-coded value of `169.254.0.253`.
- *Virtual NodePort DNAT IP*: a virtual IP address used as a DNAT IP address for NodePort Service connections through
  Antrea gateway port. Currently, we use a hard-coded value of `169.254.0.252`.

## Dumping the Flows / Groups

This guide includes a representative flow dump for every table in the pipeline, to illustrate the function of each
table. If you have a cluster running Antrea, you can dump the flows or groups on a given Node as follows:

```bash
# Dump all flows.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-flows <BRIDGE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

# Dump all groups.

> kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-groups <BRIDGE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

Author: Will remove `--not-stats`

|               | bits 21-22  | OutputRegField                  | 0b01           | OutputToOFPortRegMark           | Output packet to an OVS port.                                                                        |
|               |             |                                 | 0b10           | OutputToControllerRegMark       | Send packet to Antrea Agent.                                                                         |
|               | bits 25-32  | PacketInOperationField          |                |                                 | Field to store NetworkPolicy packetIn operation.                                                     |
| NXM_NX_REG1   | bits 0-31   | TargetOFPortField               |                |                                 | Egress OVS port of packet.                                                                           |
| NXM_NX_REG2   | bits 0-31   | SwapField                       |                |                                 | Swap values in flow fields in OpenFlow actions.                                                      |

> |               |             | PacketInTableField              |                |                                 | OVS table where it was decided to send packets to the controller (Antrea Agent).                     |

Author: Done

|---------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| 65520   | CtZone       | Tracking IPv4 connections that don't require SNAT. |
| 65521   | SNATCtZone   | Tracking IPv4 connections that require SNAT.       |

## Kubernetes NetworkPolicy Implementation

Several tables of the pipeline are dedicated to [Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) implementation (table
[EgressRule], [EgressDefault], [IngressRule], and [IngressDefault]).

In this document, the Kubernetes NetworkPolicy example below is used to explain how these simple ingress and egress
rules are mapped to flows in the pipeline.

This Kubernetes NetworkPolicy is applied to Pods with the label `app: web` in the `default` Namespace. For these Pods,
only TCP traffic on port 80 from Pods with the label `app: client` and to Pods with the label `app: db` is allowed.
Because Antrea will only install OVS flows for this Kubernetes NetworkPolicy on Nodes that have Pods selected by the
policy, we have scheduled an `app: web` Pod on the current Node from which the sample flows in this document are dumped.

> It received an IP address `10.10.0.19` from the Antrea CNI, so you will see the IP address shown in the associated

Author: Yes

    - action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: client
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
      name: AllowFromClient
    - action: Drop
  egress:
    - action: Allow
      to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: db
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 3306
      name: AllowToDb
    - action: Drop
```

## Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy Implementation

In addition to layer 3 and layer 4 policies mentioned above, [Antrea Layer 7 NetworkPolicy](../antrea-l7-network-policy.md)
is also supported in Antrea. The main difference is that Antrea layer 7 NetworkPolicy uses layer 7 protocol to match
traffic, not layer 3 or layer 4 protocol.

Consider the following Antrea layer 7 NetworkPolicy in the Application tier as an example for the remainder of this
document.

This ACNP is applied to all Pods with the label `app: client` in all Namespaces. For these Pods, egress DNS traffic on
port 53 and egress HTTP traffic with host `*.bar.com` is allowed.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-web-access-to-internal-domain
spec:

>   priority: 6

Author: I set the priority of sample L7 ANPs to 5, and the priority of normal sample ANP to 6.

6. table=Classifier, priority=190,in_port="web-7975-274540" actions=set_field:0x3/0xf->reg0,goto_table:SpoofGuard
7. table=Classifier, priority=190,in_port="db-755c6-5080e3" actions=set_field:0x3/0xf->reg0,goto_table:SpoofGuard
8. table=Classifier, priority=0 actions=drop
```

Flow 1 is designed for case 1, matching the source IP address `10.10.0.1` to ensure that the packets are originating from
the local Antrea gateway. `FromGatewayRegMark` is loaded to mark the packet source, which is consumed in tables
[L3Forwarding], [L3DecTTL], [SNATMark] and [SNAT].

Flow 2 is designed for case 2, matching packets originating from the external network through the Antrea gateway port and
forwarding them to table [SpoofGuard]. Since packets originating from the local Antrea gateway are matched by flow 1,
flow 2 can only match packets originating from the external network. The following reg marks are loaded:

- `FromGatewayRegMark`, the same as flow 1.
- `FromExternalRegMark`, indicating that the packets are from the external network, not the local Node.

Flow 3 is for case 3, matching packets through an overlay tunnel (i.e., from another Node) and forwarding them to table

> [UnSNAT]. This approach is based on the understanding that tunnel-borne packets originate from remote Nodes, potentially

Author: How about just ` This approach is based on the understanding that these packets originate from remote Nodes`?

the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP before SNAT is stored in the connection tracking field
`ct_nw_dst`.

### ConntrackZone

The main purpose of this table is to invoke action `ct` on packets from all connections. After invoking `ct` action,
packets will be in a "tracked" state, restoring all connection tracking fields to their appropriate values. It's worth
noting that when invoking action `ct` with `CtZone` to the packets that have a "tracked" state associated with
`SNATCtZone`, then the "tracked" state associated with `SNATCtZone` will be inaccessible. This transition occurs because
the "tracked" state shifts to another state associated with `CtZone`. A ct zone is similar in spirit to the more generic
Linux network namespaces, uniquely containing a "tracked" state within each ct zone.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackZone, priority=200,ip actions=ct(table=ConntrackState,zone=65520,nat)
2. table=ConntrackZone, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackState
```

Flow 1 invokes `ct` action on packets from all connections, and the packets are then forwarded to table

> [ConntrackStateTable] with the "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`. It's worth noting that:

Author: Done

> - For request packets but not the first one from Service connections DNAT'd with an Endpoint IP, whose destination IP is

Author: >  If you are trying to explain why we have the flag "nat" in the ct actions,

Yes

  affinity of the Service takes effect during the timeout.
- Source IP address, destination IP address, destination port, and transparent protocol are used to match packets of
  connections sourced from the same client and destined for the Service during the timeout.
- Endpoint IP address and Endpoint port are loaded into `EndpointIPField` and `EndpointPortField` respectively.
- `EpSelectedRegMark` is loaded, indicating that the Service Endpoint selection is done, and then the packets will
  be only matched by the last flow in table [ServiceLB].
- `RewriteMACRegMark`, which will be consumed in table [L3Forwarding], is loaded here, indicating that the source and
  destination MAC addresses of the packets should be rewritten.

Flow 2 is the table-miss flow to match the first packet of connections destined for Services. The loading of
`EpToSelectRegMark`, to be consumed in table [ServiceLB], indicating that the packet needs to do Service Endpoint
selection.

### ServiceLB

This table is used to implement Service Endpoint selection. It addresses specific cases:

1. ClusterIP, as demonstrated in the examples [ClusterIP without Endpoint] and [ClusterIP].

> 2. ClusterIP configured with session affinity, as demonstrated in the example [ClusterIP with Session Affinity].

Author: One is for ClusterIP, one is for NodePort. Though they have only one difference, I think we'd better demonstrate them completely.

11. table=ServiceLB, priority=200,tcp,reg4=0x10000/0x70000,nw_dst=192.168.77.200,tp_dst=80 actions=set_field:0x200/0x200->reg0,set_field:0x20000/0x70000->reg4,set_field:0x10->reg7,group:16
12. table=ServiceLB, priority=200,tcp,reg4=0x10000/0x70000,nw_dst=192.168.77.201,tp_dst=80 actions=set_field:0x200/0x200->reg0,set_field:0x30000/0x70000->reg4,set_field:0x11->reg7,group:17
13. table=ServiceLB, priority=190,tcp,reg4=0x30000/0x70000,nw_dst=192.168.77.201,tp_dst=80 actions=learn(table=SessionAffinity,hard_timeout=300,priority=200,delete_learned,cookie=0x203000000000a,\
    eth_type=0x800,nw_proto=6,NXM_OF_TCP_DST[],NXM_OF_IP_DST[],NXM_OF_IP_SRC[],load:NXM_NX_REG4[0..15]->NXM_NX_REG4[0..15],load:NXM_NX_REG4[26]->NXM_NX_REG4[26],load:NXM_NX_REG3[]->NXM_NX_REG3[],load:0x2->NXM_NX_REG4[16..18],load:0x1->NXM_NX_REG0[9]),\
    set_field:0x20000/0x70000->reg4,goto_table:EndpointDNAT
14. table=ServiceLB, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EndpointDNAT
```

Flow 1 or flow 2 is designed for case 1, matching the first packet of connections destined for a ClusterIP Service. This
is achieved by matching `EpToSelectRegMark` loaded in table [SessionAffinity], clusterIP, and port. The target

> of the packet is an OVS group where the Endpoint will be selected. Before forwarding the packet to the OVS group,

Author: Yes. I meant the target of the packets matched by the flow.

`RewriteMACRegMark` that will be consumed in table [L3Forwarding] is loaded, indicating that the source and destination
MAC addresses of the packets should be rewritten. `EpSelectedRegMark` that will be consumed in table [EndpointDNAT]
is also loaded, indicating that the Endpoint is selected. Note that the Service Endpoint selection is not completed yet,
as it will be done in the target OVS group. The action is set here to support more Endpoints in an
OVS group. Refer to PR [#2101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/2101) for more information.

> Flow 3 is the initial process for case 2, matching the first packet of connections destined for a ClusterIP Service configured

Author: As you said, the packet is first processed by flow 3, then it is sent to an OVS group and resubmitted back to the table, and then it is processed by flow 4.

The different match condition are `reg4=0x10000/0x70000`(flow 3) and `reg4=0x30000/0x70000` (flow 4).

with session affinity. This is achieved by matching the conditions similar to flow 1. Like flow 1, the target of the
flow is also an OVS group, and `RewriteMACRegMark` is loaded. The difference is that `EpToLearnRegMark` is loaded, rather
than `EpSelectedRegMark`, indicating that the selected Endpoint needs to be cached.

> Flow 4 is the final process for case 2, matching the packet previously matched by flow 2, sent back from the target OVS

Author: My fault. It should be flow 3.

group after selecting an Endpoint. Then a learned flow will be generated in table [SessionAffinity] to match the packets
of the subsequent connections from the same client IP, ensuring that the packets are always forwarded to the same Endpoint
selected the first time. `EpSelectedRegMark` that will be consumed in table [EndpointDNAT] is loaded, indicating that
Service Endpoint selection has been done.

> Flow 5 is for case 3, matching the first packet of connections destined for a NodePort Service. This is achieved by matching

Author: Do you mean the sample flows?

Flow 11 is for case 7, processing the first packet of connections destined for a Service with an external IP, similar to
flow 1.

Flows 12-13 are for case 8, processing the first packet of connections destined for a Service configured with session
affinity with an external IP, similar to flows 3-4.

Flow 14 is the table-miss flow.

As mentioned above, the Service Endpoint selection is performed within OVS groups. The following lists three
OVS groups:

```text
1. group_id=9,type=select,\
   bucket=bucket_id:0,weight:100,actions=set_field:0x4000/0x4000->reg0,resubmit(,EndpointDNAT)
2. group_id=10,type=select,\
   bucket=bucket_id:0,weight:100,actions=set_field:0xa0a0018->reg3,set_field:0x50/0xffff->reg4,resubmit(,EndpointDNAT),\
   bucket=bucket_id:1,weight:100,actions=set_field:0x4000000/0x4000000->reg4,set_field:0xa0a0106->reg3,set_field:0x50/0xffff->reg4,resubmit(,EndpointDNAT)
3. group_id=11,type=select,\
   bucket=bucket_id:0,weight:100,actions=set_field:0xa0a0018->reg3,set_field:0x50/0xffff->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB),\
   bucket=bucket_id:1,weight:100,actions=set_field:0x4000000/0x4000000->reg4,set_field:0xa0a0106->reg3,set_field:0x50/0xffff->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB)
```

> Group 1 is the destination of packets matched by flow 1, designed for a Service without Endpoints. The group only has a

Author: Done

of `EndpointPortField` storing the Endpoint port and `EpSelectedRegMark`). Then `ct` action is invoked on the packet,
performing DNAT'd and forwarding it to table [ConntrackStateTable] with the "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`.
It is worth noting that some bits of ct mark are persisted:

- `ServiceCTMark`, to be consumed in tables [L3Forwarding] and [ConntrackCommit], indicating that the current packet and
  subsequent packets of the connection are for a Service.
- The value of `PktSourceField` is persisted to `ConnSourceCTMarkField`, storing the source of the connection for the
  current packet and subsequent packets of the connection.

### AntreaPolicyEgressRule

This table is used to implement the egress rules across all Antrea-native NetworkPolicies, except for NetworkPolicies
that are created in the Baseline Tier. Antrea-native NetworkPolicies created in the Baseline Tier will be enforced after
Kubernetes NetworkPolicies and their egress rules are installed in tables [EgressDefault] and [EgressRule] respectively,
i.e.

```text
Antrea-native NetworkPolicy Baseline Tier  ->  EgressDefault
Kubernetes NetworkPolicy                   ->  EgressRule

> Antrea-native NetworkPolicy other Tiers    ->  AntreaPolicyEgressRule

Author: Done

```

Antrea-native NetworkPolicy relies on the OVS built-in `conjunction` action to implement policies efficiently. This

> enables us to do a conjunctive match across multiple dimensions (source IP, destination IP, port) efficiently without

Author: No, any match conditions can be used as a dimension, and we only use these conditions.

> enables us to do a conjunctive match across multiple dimensions (source IP, destination IP, port) efficiently without

Reviewer: If so, it's better to add `etc.` 
```suggestion
enables us to do a conjunctive match across multiple dimensions (source IP, destination IP, port, etc.) efficiently without
```

"exploding" the number of flows. For our use case, we have at most 3 dimensions.

The only requirement of `conj_id` is to be a unique 32-bit integer within the table. At the moment we use a single
custom allocator, which is common to all tables that can have NetworkPolicy flows installed

> ([AntreaPolicyEgressRule], [EgressRule], [EgressDefault], [AntreaPolicyIngressRule], [IngressRule], and [EgressDefault]).

Author: Good catch!

15. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=44879,ip actions=conjunction(13,2/2)
16. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=44879,ip,nw_src=10.10.0.26 actions=conjunction(13,1/2)
17. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=44879,conj_id=13,ip actions=set_field:0xd->reg5,ct(commit,table=EgressMetric,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0xd00000000/0xffffffff00000000->ct_label,set_field:0x80/0x80->ct_mark,set_field:0x40000000000000000/0xfff0000000000000000->ct_label))
18. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EgressRule
```

Flows 1-2, which are installed by default, hold the highest priorities, matching non-new and "tracked" packets and
forwarding them to table [EgressMetric] to bypass the check from egress rules. This means that if a connection is
established, its packets go straight to table [EgressMetric], with no other match required. In particular, this ensures
that reply traffic is never dropped because of an Antrea-native NetworkPolicy or Kubernetes NetworkPolicy rule. However,
this also means that ongoing connections are not affected if the Antrea-native NetworkPolicy or the Kubernetes

> NetworkPolicy is updated.

Author: I think it depends on conntrack timeout. As you think, if the connection is always active, the the corresponding conntrack item will never die.

as-is, and there is no need for a table [AntreaPolicyEgressDefault]. These flows are described as follows:

- Flow 7 is utilized to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.24}, which is from the Pods selected
  by label `app: web`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 5.
- Flow 8 is utilized to match any packets, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 5.
- Flow 9 is utilized to match packets meeting both dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 5. `APDenyRegMark` is
  loaded and will be consumed in table [EgressMetric] to which the packets are forwarded.

Flows 10-14, whose priorities are all 44880, are installed for the egress rule `AllowDNS` in the sample policy,
applying to Pods with the label `app: client`. The pattern of these flows is similar to that of flows 3-6 or flows 7-9.

Flows 14-17, whose priories are all 44879, are installed for the egress rule `AllowHTTP` in the sample policy.
Unlike other policies, this sample policy is for L7 protocol, allowing HTTP with host `*.bar.com` ingress traffic.

> Flows 15-16 are nothing different. In flow 17, there is something specific for L7 protocol:

Author: Good catch!

  dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2.
- Flow 4 is to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 2 and forward them to
  table [EgressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `EgressRuleCTLabel`.

Flow 5 is the table-miss flow to forward packets not matched by other flows to table [EgressDefaultRule].

### EgressDefault

This table complements table [EgressRule] for Kubernetes NetworkPolicy egress rule implementation. When a NetworkPolicy
is applied to a set of Pods, and the default behavior for these Pods becomes "deny" (it becomes an [isolated Pod](
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#isolated-and-non-isolated-pods)).
This table is in charge of dropping traffic originating from Pods to which a NetworkPolicy (with an egress rule) is
applied, and which did not match any of the allowed list rules.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=EgressDefaultRule, priority=200,ip,nw_src=10.10.0.24 actions=drop
2. table=EgressDefaultRule, priority=0 actions=goto_table:EgressMetric
```

> Flow 1, based on our sample Kubernetes NetworkPolicy, is to drop traffic originating from 10.10.0.24, an IP address

Author: Make sense, will add.

Since the Baseline Tier is meant to be enforced after Kubernetes NetworkPolicies, the corresponding flows will be created
at a lower priority than Kubernetes NetworkPolicy default drop flows. These flows are similar to flows 3-9 in table
[AntreaPolicyEgressRule].

### EgressMetric

This table is used to collect egress metrics for Antrea-native NetworkPolicies and Kubernetes NetworkPolicies.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=EgressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=+new,ct_label=0x200000000/0xffffffff00000000,ip actions=goto_table:L3Forwarding
2. table=EgressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=-new,ct_label=0x200000000/0xffffffff00000000,ip actions=goto_table:L3Forwarding
3. table=EgressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=+new,ct_label=0x700000000/0xffffffff00000000,ip actions=goto_table:L3Forwarding
4. table=EgressMetric, priority=200,ct_state=-new,ct_label=0x700000000/0xffffffff00000000,ip actions=goto_table:L3Forwarding
5. table=EgressMetric, priority=200,reg0=0x400/0x400,reg3=0x5 actions=drop
6. table=EgressMetric, priority=0 actions=goto_table:L3Forwarding
```

> 

Author: But we have two examples. I think we should have something consistent in this pipeline document.

> 

Author: @antoninbas also here, should we remove the similar flows?

> 

Reviewer 2: I prefer consistency with the K8s resources we give as examples, even if it means some redundancy in the flows dumps. When we describe the flows however, we don't need to give a text description for "identical" flows.

Flows 1-2, matching packets with `EgressRuleCTLabel` set to 2, the `conj_id` allocated for the sample Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy egress rule and loaded in table [EgressRule] flow 4, are utilized to collect metrics for the egress rule.

Flows 3-4, matching packets with `EgressRuleCTLabel` set to 7, the `conj_id` allocated for the sample Antrea-native
NetworkPolicy egress rule and loaded in table [EgressRule] flow 6, are utilized to collect metrics for the egress rule.

Flow 5 serves as the default drop rule for the sample Antrea-native NetworkPolicy egress rule. It drops the packets with
`APDenyRegMark` loaded in table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] flow 9, and `APConjIDField` set to 5, the `conj_id` allocated
the egress rule and loaded in table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] flow 9.

It's worth noting that ct label is used in flows 1-4, while reg is used in flow 5. The distinction lies in the fact that
the value persisted in the ct label can be read throughout the entire lifecycle of a connection, but the reg mark is only valid for
the current packet. For a connection permitted by a rule, all its packets should be collected for metrics, thus a ct

> label is used. For a connection denied or dropped by a rule, the first packet will be blocked, therefore a reg is enough.

Author: I was wondering to say that the first packet will be always blocked and there will not be subsequent packets. I'll refine this sentence.

> label is used. For a connection denied or dropped by a rule, the first packet will be blocked, therefore a reg is enough.

Author: Maybe this is better
```
For a connection denied or dropped by a rule, the first packet and the subsequent retry packets
will be blocked, therefore a reg is enough.
```

Flow 6 is the table-miss flow.

### L3Forwarding

This table, designated as the L3 routing table, serves to assign suitable source and destination MAC addresses to
packets based on their destination IP addresses, as well as their reg marks or ct marks.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=L3Forwarding, priority=210,ip,nw_dst=10.10.0.1 actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst,set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L3DecTTL
2. table=L3Forwarding, priority=210,ct_state=+rpl+trk,ct_mark=0x2/0xf,ip actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst,set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L3DecTTL
3. table=L3Forwarding, priority=200,ip,reg0=0/0x200,nw_dst=10.10.0.0/24 actions=goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
4. table=L3Forwarding, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.10.1.0/24 actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_src,set_field:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff->eth_dst,set_field:192.168.77.103->tun_dst,set_field:0x10/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L3DecTTL

> 5. table=L3Forwarding, priority=200,ip,reg0=0x200/0x200,nw_dst=10.10.0.24 actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_src,set_field:fa:b7:53:74:21:a6->eth_dst,goto_table:L3DecTTL

Author: I personally prefer reserving such flows, despite their potential redundancy, to maintain consistency throughout the document, since we have three test Pods in this document.

> 5. table=L3Forwarding, priority=200,ip,reg0=0x200/0x200,nw_dst=10.10.0.24 actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_src,set_field:fa:b7:53:74:21:a6->eth_dst,goto_table:L3DecTTL

Author: @antoninbas Should we remove some redundancy flows that have the same pattern like above?

7. table=L3Forwarding, priority=200,ip,reg0=0x200/0x200,nw_dst=10.10.0.26 actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_src,set_field:5e:b5:e3:a6:90:b7->eth_dst,goto_table:L3DecTTL
8. table=L3Forwarding, priority=190,ct_state=-rpl+trk,ip,reg0=0x3/0xf,reg4=0/0x100000 actions=goto_table:EgressMark
9. table=L3Forwarding, priority=190,ct_state=-rpl+trk,ip,reg0=0x1/0xf actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst,goto_table:EgressMark
10. table=L3Forwarding, priority=190,ct_mark=0x10/0x10,reg0=0x202/0x20f actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst,set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L3DecTTL
11. table=L3Forwarding, priority=0 actions=set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
```

Flow 1 matches packets destined for the local Antrea gateway IP, rewrites their destination MAC address to that of the
local Antrea gateway, loads `ToGatewayRegMark`, and forwards them to table [L3DecTTL] to decrease TTL value. It's worth
noting that the action of rewriting the destination MAC address is not necessary but not harmful for Pod-to-gateway request
packets because the destination MAC address is already the local gateway MAC address. However, it is utilized by the

> feature AntreaIPAM, which is not enabled by default.

Author: I meant that flow 1 is for AntreaIPAM, but we always enable it even when AntreaIPAM is not enabled.

> feature AntreaIPAM, which is not enabled by default.

Author: This is the meaning I wanted to express:

```
Flow 1 matches packets destined for the local Antrea gateway IP, rewrites their destination MAC address to that of the
local Antrea gateway, loads `ToGatewayRegMark`, and forwards them to table [L3DecTTL] to decrease TTL value. It's worth
noting that the action of rewriting the destination MAC address is not necessary but not harmful for Pod-to-gateway
request packets because the destination MAC address is already the local gateway MAC address. In short, the action is
only necessary for `AntreaIPAM` Pods, not required by the sample NodeIPAM Pods in this document.
```

Flow 2 matches reply packets with corresponding ct "tracked" states and `FromGatewayCTMark` from connections initiated
through the local Antrea gateway. In other words, these are connections for which the first packet of the connection
(SYN packet for TCP) was received through the local Antrea gateway. It rewrites the destination MAC address to
that of the local Antrea gateway, loads `ToGatewayRegMark`, and forwards them to table [L3DecTTL]. This ensures that
reply packets can be forwarded back to the local Antrea gateway in subsequent tables, guaranteeing the availability
of the connection. This flow is required to handle the following cases when AntreaProxy is not disabled:

- Reply traffic for connections from a local Pod to a ClusterIP Service, which are handled by kube-proxy and go through
  DNAT. In this case, the destination IP address of the reply traffic is the Pod which initiated the connection to the

>   Service (no SNAT by kube-proxy). We need to make sure that these packets are sent back through the gateway so that

Author: I think this is the same topic as https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/5412#discussion_r1565344847

them to table [L2ForwardingCalc] to skip Egress SNAT. `ToGatewayRegMark` is loaded, indicating that the output port of
the packets is the local Antrea gateway.

Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Service CIDR, and then forwards them to table
[L2ForwardingCalc] to skip Egress SNAT. Similar to flows 1-2, `ToGatewayRegMark` is also loaded.

Flow 4 match packets originating from local Pods selected by the sample Egress `egress-client`, whose SNAT IP is configured
on a remote Node, which means that the matched packets should be forwarded to the remote Node through a tunnel. Before
sending the packets to the tunnel, the source and destination MAC addresses are set to those of the local Antrea
gateway and the *Global Virtual MAC*, respectively. Additionally, `ToTunnelRegMark`, indicating that the output port is
a tunnel, and `EgressSNATRegMark`, indicating that packets should undergo SNAT on a remote Node, are loaded. Finally,
the packets are forwarded to table [L2ForwardingCalc].

Flow 5 matches the first packet of connections originating from remote Pods selected by the sample Egress `egress-web`

> whose SNAT IP is configured on the local Node, and then loads an 8-bit ID allocated for the associated SNAT IP defined

Author: The word "8" starts with a vowel sound ("ei" as in "eight").

Antrea-native NetworkPolicies applied to NodePort Services. Without this flow, if the selected Endpoint is not a local
Pod, the packets might be matched by one of the flows 3-5, skipping table [AntreaPolicyIngressRule].

Flows 3-5 matches packets destined for the local Antrea gateway, tunnel, uplink port with `ToGatewayRegMark`,
`ToTunnelRegMark` or `ToUplinkRegMark`, respectively, and forwards them to table [IngressMetric] directly to bypass
all tables for ingress security.

Flow 5 matches packets from hairpin connections with `HairpinCTMark` and forwards them to table [ConntrackCommit]
directly to bypass all tables for ingress security. Refer to this PR
[#5687](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/5687) for more information.

Flow 6 is the table-miss flow.

### AntreaPolicyIngressRule

This table is very similar to table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] but implements the ingress rules of Antrea-native
NetworkPolicies. Depending on the tier to which the policy belongs, the rules will be installed in a table
corresponding to that tier. The ingress table to tier mappings is as follows:

```text

> Antrea-native NetworkPolicy Baseline Tier  ->  IngressDefault

Author: Good catch!

  the Pods selected by label `app: client`, constituting the first dimension for `cojunction` with `conj_id` 6.
- Flow 4 is utilized to match packets with the output port in set {0x25}, which has all the ports of the Pods selected
  by the label `app: web`, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 6.
- Flow 5 is utilized to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {80} specified in the rule, constituting
  the third dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 6.
- Flow 6 is utilized to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 6 and forward
  them to table [IngressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `IngressRuleCTLabel` consumed in table [IngressMetric].

Flows 7-9, whose priorities are all 44899, are installed for the egress rule with a `Drop` action defined after the rule
`AllowFromClient` in the sample policy, serves as a default rule. Unlike the default of Kubernetes NetworkPolicy,
Antrea-native NetworkPolicy has no default rule, and all rules should be explicitly defined. Hence, they are evaluated

> as-is, and there is no need for a table [AntreaPolicyIngressDefault]. These flows are described as follows:

Author: We don't have such table. 

> Do you want to say there is no need to create a table named AntreaPolicyIngressDefault?

Yes

5. table=IngressRule, priority=0 actions=goto_table:IngressDefaultRule
```

Flows 1-4 are installed for the ingress rule in the sample Kubernetes NetworkPolicy. These flows are described as follows:

- Flow 1 is utilized to match packets with the source IP address in set {10.10.0.26}, which is from the Pods selected
  by the label `app: client`, constituting the first dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3.
- Flow 2 is utilized to match packets with the output port in set {0x25}, which has all ports of the Pods selected
  by the label `app: web`, constituting the second dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3.
- Flow 3 is utilized to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {80} specified in the rule, constituting
  the third dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3.
- Flow 4 is utilized to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 3 and forward
  them to table [IngressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `IngressRuleCTLabel`.

Flow 5 is the table-miss flow to forward packets not matched by other flows to table [IngressDefaultRule].

### IngressDefault

> This table is similar in its purpose to table [IngressDefault], and it complements table [IngressRule] for Kubernetes

Author: Yes, I will correct this.

- Other feature gates remain at their default settings.

## Terminology

### Antrea / Kubernetes

- *Node Route Controller*: the [Kubernetes controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/)
  which is part of the Antrea Agent and watches for updates to Nodes. When a Node is added, it updates the local networking
  configuration (e.g. configure the tunnel to the new Node). When a Node is deleted, it performs the necessary clean-ups.
- *peer Node*: this is how we refer to other Nodes in the cluster, to which the local Node is connected through a Geneve,
  VXLAN, GRE, or STT tunnel.
- *Antrea-native NetworkPolicy*: Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy and Antrea NetworkPolicy CRDs, as documented
  [here](../antrea-network-policy.md).
- *Service session affinity*: a load balancer feature that always selects the same backend Pod for connections from a
  particular client. For a Kubernetes Service, session affinity can be enabled by setting `service.spec.sessionAffinity`
  to `ClientIP` (default is `None`). See [Kubernetes Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
  for more information about session affinity.

### Openflow

> - *table-miss flow*: a "catch-all" flow in a OpenFlow table, which is used if no other flow is matched. If the table-miss

Author: Will replace all `default drop flow` with `table-miss flow`.

| NXM_NX_REG8   | bits 0-11   | VLANIDField               |                |                                 | VLAN ID.                                                                                 |
|               | bits 12-15  | CtZoneTypeField           | 0b0001         | IPCtZoneTypeRegMark             | Ct zone type is IPv4.                                                                    |
|               |             |                           | 0b0011         | IPv6CtZoneTypeRegMark           | Ct zone type is IPv6.                                                                    |
|               | bits 0-15   | CtZoneField               |                |                                 | Ct zone ID is a combination of VLANIDField and CtZoneTypeField.                          |
| NXM_NX_XXREG3 | bits 0-127  | EndpointIP6Field          |                |                                 | Field to store IPv6 address of selected Service Endpoint.                                |

> Note that, reg marks that have overlapped bits will not be used at the same time, like `SwapField` and `PacketInTableField`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that reg marks that have overlapped bits will not be used at the same time, such as `SwapField` and `PacketInTableField`.
```

## Ct Marks

> We use some bits of OVS connection tracking mark to carry information throughout the pipeline. To enhance usability, we

Reviewer 2: of _the_ OVS connection tracking mark

> assign friendly names to the bits we use, which is called *ct mark*.

Reviewer 2: based on the sentence, I don't know what is called *ct mark*?

| bits 0-3    | ConnSourceCTMarkField | 0b0010        | FromGatewayCTMark  | Connection source is Antrea gateway port.                       |
|             |                       | 0b0101        | FromBridgeCTMark   | Connection source is local bridge port.                         |
| bit 4       |                       | 0b1           | ServiceCTMark      | Connection is for Service.                                      |
|             |                       | 0b0           | NotServiceCTMark   | Connection is not for Service.                                  |
| bit 5       |                       | 0b1           | ConnSNATCTMark     | SNAT'd connection for Service.                                  |
| bit 6       |                       | 0b1           | HairpinCTMark      | Hair-pin connection.                                            |
| bit 7       |                       | 0b1           | L7NPRedirectCTMark | Connection should be redirected to an application-aware engine. |

## Ct Labels

We use some bits of OVS connection tracking label to carry information throughout the pipeline. To enhance usability,

> we assign friendly names to the bits we use, which is called *ct mark*.

Reviewer 2: same 2 comments as above (plus here there is a typo: *ct mark* instead of *ct label*)

| Field Range | Field Name            | Description                        |
|-------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------|
| bits 0-31   | IngressRuleCTLabel    | Ingress rule ID.                   |
| bits 32-63  | EgressRuleCTLabel     | Egress rule ID.                    |
| bits 64-75  | L7NPRuleVlanIDCTLabel | VLAN ID for L7 NetworkPolicy rule. |

## Ct Zones

We use some ct zones to isolate connection tracking rules. To enhance usability, we assign friendly names to the ct zones.

| Zone ID | Zone Name    | Description                                        |
|---------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| 65520   | CtZone       | Tracking IPv4 connections that don't require SNAT. |
| 65521   | SNATCtZone   | Tracking IPv4 connections that require SNAT.       |

## Kubernetes NetworkPolicy Implementation

Several tables of the pipeline are dedicated to [Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) implementation (table

> [EgressRule], [EgressDefault], [IngressRule] and [IngressDefault]).

Reviewer 2: the table name links don't render correctly

  which is part of the Antrea Agent and watches for updates to Nodes. When a Node is added, it updates the local networking
  configuration (e.g. configure the tunnel to the new Node). When a Node is deleted, it performs the necessary clean-ups.
- *peer Node*: this is how we refer to other Nodes in the cluster, to which the local Node is connected through a Geneve,
  VXLAN, GRE, or STT tunnel.
- *Antrea-native NetworkPolicy*: Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy and Antrea NetworkPolicy CRDs, as documented
  [here](../antrea-network-policy.md).
- *Service session affinity*: a load balancer feature that always selects the same backend Pod for connections from a
  particular client. For a Kubernetes Service, session affinity can be enabled by setting `service.spec.sessionAffinity`
  to `ClientIP` (default is `None`). See [Kubernetes Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
  for more information about session affinity.

### Openflow

- *table-miss flow*: a "catch-all" flow in a OpenFlow table, which is used if no other flow is matched. If the table-miss
  flow does not exist, by default packets unmatched by flow entries are dropped (discarded).

> - *action `conjunction`*: an efficient way in OVS to implement conjunctive matches, that is a match for which we
>   have multiple fields, each one with a set of acceptable values. See [OVS

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- *action `conjunction`*: an efficient way in OVS to implement conjunctive matches: a match for which multiple 
  fields are required to match conjunctively, each within a set of acceptable values. See [OVS
```

we assign friendly names to the bits we use.

| Field Range | Field Name            | Description                        |
|-------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------|
| bits 0-31   | IngressRuleCTLabel    | Ingress rule ID.                   |
| bits 32-63  | EgressRuleCTLabel     | Egress rule ID.                    |
| bits 64-75  | L7NPRuleVlanIDCTLabel | VLAN ID for L7 NetworkPolicy rule. |

## OVS Ct Zone

We use some OVS connection tracking zones to isolate connection tracking rules. To enhance usability, we assign friendly
names to the ct zones.

| Zone ID | Zone Name    | Description                                        |
|---------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| 65520   | CtZone       | Tracking IPv4 connections that don't require SNAT. |
| 65521   | SNATCtZone   | Tracking IPv4 connections that require SNAT.       |

## Kubernetes NetworkPolicy Implementation

Several tables of the pipeline are dedicated to [Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) implementation (table
[EgressRule], [EgressDefault], [IngressRule] and [IngressDefault]).

> The Antrea implementation of Kubernetes NetworkPolicy, including the communication channel between the Antrea Controller

Reviewer 4: This paragraph is confusing to me. Did you mean the implementation of `Antrea-native Policy` is described in another document?

Author: I copied it from the original doc. I found this is not ver relevant to the pipeline doc. I'll remove it.

  more information.
* *conntrack*: a connection tracking module that can be used by OVS to match on
  the state of a TCP, UDP, ICMP, etc., connection. See the [OVS Conntrack
  tutorial](http://docs.openvswitch.org/en/latest/tutorials/ovs-conntrack/) for
  more information.
* *dmac table*: a traditional L2 switch has a "dmac" table which maps
  learned destination MAC address to the appropriate egress port. It is often
  the same physical table as the "smac" table (which matches on the source MAC
  address and initiate MAC learning if the address is unknown).
* *group action*: an action which is used to process forwarding decisions
  on multiple OVS ports. Examples include: load-balancing, multicast, and active/standby.

>   See [OVS group action](https://docs.openvswitch.org/en/latest/ref/ovs-actions.7/?highlight=group#the-group-action)

Author: Will fix this later.

|               |             |                           | 0x3           | ToLocalRegMark                  | Packet destination is local Pod.                                                         |
|               |             |                           | 0x4           | ToUplinkRegMark                 | Packet destination is uplink port.                                                       |
|               |             |                           | 0x5           | ToBridgeRegMark                 | Packet destination is local bridge port.                                                 |
|               | bit  9      |                           | 0b0           | NotRewriteMACRegMark            | Packet's source / destination MAC address does not need to be rewritten.                 |
|               |             |                           | 0b1           | RewriteMACRegMark               | Packet's source / destination MAC address needs to be rewritten.                         |

> |               | bit  10     |                           | 0b1           | APDenyRegMark                   | Packet is denied (Drop / Reject) for Antrea NetworkPolicy.                               |

Reviewer 2: nit: s/denied for/denied by

> |               | bits 11-12  | APDispositionField        | 0b00          | DispositionAllowRegMark         | Indicating Antrea NetworkPolicy disposition: allow.                                      |

Reviewer 2: s/Indicating/Indicates

here and in all the other places below

|               | bits 25-32  | PacketInOperationField    | 0b00000001    | PacketInNPLoggingOperation      | Indicating packet needs logging for NetworkPolicy packetIn operation.                    |
|               |             |                           | 0b00000010    | PacketInNPRejectOperation       | Indicating packet should be rejected for NetworkPolicy packetIn operation.               |
|               |             |                           | 0b00000100    | PacketInNPStoreDenyOperation    | Indicating the corresponding connection has been dropped or rejected.                    |
| NXM_NX_REG1   | bits 0-31   | TargetOFPortField         |               |                                 | Egress OVS port of packet.                                                               |
| NXM_NX_REG2   | bits 0-31   | SwapField                 |               |                                 | Swap values in flow fields in OpenFlow actions.                                          |

> |               |             | PacketInTableField        |               |                                 | OVS table where the packet is decided to be sent to controller.                          |

Reviewer 2: OVS table where it was decided to send packet to controller (Antrea Agent)

> | NXM_NX_REG3   | bits 0-31   | EndpointIPField           |               |                                 | Field where stores selected Service Endpoint IPv4 address.                               |

Reviewer 2: Field to store IPv4 address of selected Service Endpoint

|               | bits 0-31   | APConjIDField             |               |                                 | Field to store Conjunction ID for Antrea Policy.                                         |

> | NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 0-15   | EndpointPortField         |               |                                 | Field stores IPv4 address of a Service's selected Endpoint.                              |

Reviewer 2: invalid description here (copy-paste error?)

Author: Yes

|               | bits 16-18  | ServiceEPStateField       | 0b001         | EpToSelectRegMark               | Packet needs to do Service Endpoint selection.                                           |

> |               | bits 16-18  | ServiceEPStateField       | 0b010         | EpSelectedRegMark               | Packet has done Service Endpoint selection.                                              |

Reviewer 2: is it `EpToSelectRegMark` instead of `EpToSelectedRegMark`?

Author: I didn't find `EpToSelectedRegMark`.

|               | bits 16-18  | ServiceEPStateField       | 0b011         | EpToLearnRegMark                | Packet has done Service Endpoint selection and the selected Endpoint needs to be cached. |

> |               | bits 0-18   | EpUnionField              |               |                                 | The union value of EndpointIPField and EndpointPortField.                                |

Reviewer 2: I think the description is invalid here: should it be `EpToSelectRegMark` instead of `EndpointIPField`?

Author: Good catch!

|               | bit  19     |                           | 0b1           | ToNodePortAddressRegMark        | Packet is destined to a Service of type NodePort.                                        |
|               | bit  20     |                           | 0b1           | AntreaFlexibleIPAMRegMark       | Packet is from local Antrea IPAM Pod.                                                    |

> |               | bit  20     |                           | 0b0           | NotAntreaFlexibleIPAMRegMark    | Packet is not from local Antrea IPAM Pod.                                                |

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need to cover both values for "boolean" marks like this one. For example, you don't seem to be doing it for `ToNodePortAddressRegMark`?

Author: Yes, I only cover both values when both values are used in flows.

* Antrea is deployed with default configurations and feature gates.
* IPv4 only.

## Dumping the Flows / Groups

This guide includes a representative flow dump for every table in the pipeline,
in order to illustrate the function of each table. If you have a cluster running
Antrea, you can dump the flows or groups for a given Node as follows:

```bash
# Dump all flows.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-flows <BRIDGE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

# Dump all groups.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-groups <BRIDGE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]
```

where `<ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME>` is the name of the Antrea Agent Pod running on
that Node and `<BRIDGE_NAME>` is the name of the bridge created by Antrea
(`br-int` by default).

You can also dump the flows of a table or a group on a given Node as follows:-

```bash
# Dump flows of a table.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-flows <BRIDGE_NAME> table=<TABLE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

# Dump a group.

> kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-groups <BRIDGE_NAME> table=<TABLE_NAME> <GROUP_ID> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

Author: Good catch, will correct it.

| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 21-22  | OutputRegField            | 0b10          | OutputToControllerRegMark       | Send packet to Antrea Agent.                                                     |
| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 25-32  | PacketInOperationField    | 0b00000001    | PacketInNPLoggingOperation      | Indicating packet needs logging for NetworkPolicy packetIn operation.            |
| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 25-32  | PacketInOperationField    | 0b00000010    | PacketInNPRejectOperation       | Indicating packet should be rejected for NetworkPolicy packetIn operation.       |
| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 25-32  | PacketInOperationField    | 0b00000100    | PacketInNPStoreDenyOperation    | Indicating the corresponding connection has been dropped or rejected.            |
| NXM_NX_REG1   | bits 0-31   | PktMarkField              |               |                                 | Egress OVS port for the packet.                                                  |
| NXM_NX_REG2   | bits 0-31   | SwapField                 |               |                                 | Swap values in flow fields in OpenFlow actions.                                  |

> | NXM_NX_REG2   | bits 0-31   | PacketInTableField        |               |                                 | OVS table where the packet is decided to be sent to controller.                  |

Author: Will add.

| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 16-18  | ServiceEPStateField       | 0b011         | EpToLearnRegMark                | Packet has done Endpoint selection and the selection result needs to be cached.  |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 0-18   | EpUnionField              |               |                                 | Union of EndpointIPField and EndpointPortField.                                  |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 19     |                           | 0b1           | ToNodePortAddressRegMark        | Packet is destined to a Service of type NodePort.                                |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 20     |                           | 0b1           | AntreaFlexibleIPAMRegMark       | Packet is from local Antrea IPAM Pod.                                            |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 20     |                           | 0b0           | NotAntreaFlexibleIPAMRegMark    | Packet is not from local Antrea IPAM Pod.                                        |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 21     |                           | 0b1           | ToExternalAddressRegMark        | Packet is destined to a Service's external IP.                                   |

> | NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 22-23  | TrafficControlActionField | 0b01          | TrafficControlMirrorRegMark     | Mirror the packet.                                                               |

Author: Will add.

| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 22-23  | TrafficControlActionField | 0b10          | TrafficControlRedirectRegMark   | Redirect the packet.                                                             |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 24     |                           | 0b1           | NestedServiceRegMark            | Packet is destined to a Service which is backed by Service IPs of other Service. |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 25     |                           | 0b1           | DSRServiceRegMark               | Packet is destined to a Service working in DSR mode.                             |
| NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 26     |                           | 0b1           | RemoteEndpointRegMark           | Packet is destined to a Service selecting a remote non-hostNetwork Endpoint.     |

> | NXM_NX_REG4   | bits 27     |                           | 0b1           | FromExternalRegMark             | Packet is from Antrea gateway, but its source IP is not the gateway IP.          |

Author: It is like an independent flag to identify packet source in logic (internal, external network) level, `PktSourceField` is only to identify packet source in OVS port level.

| NXM_NX_REG5   | bits 0-31   | TFEgressConjIDField       |               |                                 | Egress conjunction ID hit by TraceFlow packet.                                   |
| NXM_NX_REG6   | bits 0-31   | TFIngressConjIDField      |               |                                 | Ingress conjunction ID hit by TraceFlow packet.                                  |
| NXM_NX_REG7   | bits 0-31   | ServiceGroupIDField       |               |                                 | GroupID corresponding to the Service.                                            |
| NXM_NX_REG8   | bits 0-11   | VLANIDField               |               |                                 | VLAN ID.                                                                         |

> | NXM_NX_REG8   | bits 12-15  | CtZoneTypeField           | 0b0001        | IPCtZoneTypeRegMark             | Ct zone type is IPv4.                                                            |

Author: @gran-vmv Could you help verify this?

## CT Labels

| Field Range | Field Name            | CTLabel Value | CTLabel Name | Description                        |
|-------------|-----------------------|---------------|--------------|------------------------------------|
| bits 0-31   | IngressRuleCTLabel    |               |              | Ingress rule ID.                   |
| bits 32-63  | EgressRuleCTLabel     |               |              | Egress rule ID.                    |
| bits 64-75  | L7NPRuleVlanIDCTLabel |               |              | VLAN ID for L7 NetworkPolicy rule. |

## OVS Tables

![OVS pipeline](../assets/ovs-pipeline-antrea-proxy.svg)

### PipelineRootClassifier

This table serves as the primary entry point in the pipeline, directing packets to different tables based on their
respective protocols.

If you dump the flows for this table, you should see the following:

```text
1. table=PipelineRootClassifier, priority=200,arp actions=goto_table:ARPSpoofGuard
2. table=PipelineRootClassifier, priority=200,ip actions=goto_table:Classifier
3. table=PipelineRootClassifier, priority=0 actions=drop
```

- Flow 1 forwards ARP packets to table [ARPSpoofGuard].

> - Flow 2 forwards IP packets to table [Classifier].

Author: This document is only for IPv4. We could add IPv6 flows in later PRs.

> - Flow 3 is the default drop flow, rarely used.

Reviewer 2: s/rarely used/not normally used

### ARPSpoofGuard

This table prevents ARP [spoofing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoofing_attack) from local Pods and local Antrea gateway.
For each Pod (as identified by the ingress port), we ensure that: the advertised IP and MAC addresses are correct, i.e.
match the values configured on the interface when Antrea set-up networking for the Pod.

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="antrea-gw0",arp_spa=10.10.0.1,arp_sha=ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0 actions=goto_table:ARPResponder
2. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="coredns--da1990",arp_spa=10.10.0.2,arp_sha=ee:76:de:a8:dc:c9 actions=goto_table:ARPResponder
3. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="coredns--bb7794",arp_spa=10.10.0.3,arp_sha=a6:ef:11:a7:87:b9 actions=goto_table:ARPResponder

> 4. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="nginx-d9-cd1533",arp_spa=10.10.0.7,arp_sha=2e:ba:06:b2:44:91 actions=goto_table:ARPResponder

Author: In this document, we only explain the flows of Antrea with default enabled feature gates and options on IPv4 Linux Node.

remote peer gateway (another Node's gateway). This ensures that the local Node can reach any remote Pod, which in particular
is required for Service traffic which has been load-balanced to a remote Pod backend by kube-proxy. Note that the table
is programmed to reply to such ARP requests with a "Global Virtual MAC" ("Global" because it is used by all Antrea OVS
bridges), and not with the actual MAC address of the remote gateway. This ensures that once the traffic is received by
the remote OVS bridge, it can be directly forwarded to the appropriate Pod without actually going through the gateway.
The virtual MAC is used as the destination MAC address for all the traffic being tunnelled.

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=ARPResponder, priority=200,arp,arp_tpa=10.10.1.1,arp_op=1 actions=move:NXM_OF_ETH_SRC[]->NXM_OF_ETH_DST[],set_field:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff->eth_src,set_field:2->arp_op,move:NXM_NX_ARP_SHA[]->NXM_NX_ARP_THA[],set_field:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff->arp_sha,move:NXM_OF_ARP_SPA[]->NXM_OF_ARP_TPA[],set_field:10.10.1.1->arp_spa,IN_PORT
2. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=ARPResponder, priority=190,arp actions=NORMAL

> 3. cookie=0x2000000000000, table=ARPResponder, priority=0 actions=drop

Author: You are right. Flow 3 should be never hit. Flow 3 is a auto-generated one.

> 3. cookie=0x2000000000000, table=ARPResponder, priority=0 actions=drop

Author: TODO：remove this flow.

3. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=SpoofGuard, priority=200,ip,in_port="coredns--bb7794",dl_src=a6:ef:11:a7:87:b9,nw_src=10.10.0.3 actions=goto_table:UnSNAT
4. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=SpoofGuard, priority=200,ip,in_port="nginx-d9-cd1533",dl_src=2e:ba:06:b2:44:91,nw_src=10.10.0.7 actions=goto_table:UnSNAT
5. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=SpoofGuard, priority=200,ip,in_port="nginx-d9-b93cc5",dl_src=c2:5a:5e:50:95:9b,nw_src=10.10.0.8 actions=goto_table:UnSNAT
6. cookie=0x2000000000000, table=SpoofGuard, priority=0 actions=drop
```

- Flow 1 matches packets from local Antrea gateway, but does not check source IP. There are some cases where the source
  IP of packets through local Antrea gateway is not the local Antrea gateway IP:
  - When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy and AntreaProxy is not enabled, packets from local Pods destined to Services
    will first go through the gateway, get load-balanced by the kube-proxy datapath (DNAT) then sent back through the
    gateway. This means that legitimate packets can be received on the gateway port with a source IP belonging to a local
    Pod.

>   - When both AntreaProxy and proxyAll are enabled, packets from external destined to Services will be routed to OVS

Author: In case 2, packets are forwarded by iptables and iptsets installed by AntreaProxy to antrea-gw0, but in case 3, packets are load-balanced by the kube-proxy and forwarded to antrea-gw0.

1. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.253 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
2. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.10.0.1 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
3. table=UnSNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackZone
```

- Flows 1-2 matches reply packets of SNATed Service connections.
  - Match condition `nw_dst=169.254.0.253` is to match packets with a virtual IP for Service.
  - Match condition `nw_dst=10.10.0.1` is to match packets with local Antrea gateway IP. This will match packets from
    local Pods destined to local Antrea gateway, but this will cause any side effect since such connections will never
    be committed in SNAT ct zone 65521.
  - Action `ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)` is to invoke the `ct` action on packets. The packets will be forked
    to table [ConntrackZone] and restored the "tracked" state in ct zone 65521, like the original IP before SNAT.
- Flow 3 is the default flow to forward packets to table [ConntrackZone] without invoking `ct` action.

### Conntrack

This table is used to invoke the `ct` action on all packets and set the ct zone (connection tracking context) to the
target hard-coded value.

> It's worth noting that upon invoking `ct` action with a new ct zone to a packet that has a "tracked" state in another

Author: I try to explain that the "tracked" state in ct zone A will be in inaccessible ct zone B

mentioned, a ct zone is similar in spirit to the more generic Linux network namespaces, uniquely containing a "tracked"
state within each ct zone.

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackZone, priority=200,ip actions=ct(table=ConntrackState,zone=65520,nat)
2. table=ConntrackZone, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackState
```

- Flow 1 invokes action `ct` on all packets and fork them to table [ConntrackStateTable]. Ct states will be restored
  after invoking `ct` action. Besides, for Service connections, the original IP before DNAT will be also restored.
- Flow 2 is an auto-generated flow that should remain unused.

### ConntrackState

This table handles "tracked" packets from connections committed in table [EndpointDNAT] (Service connection) or
[ConntrackCommit] (non-Service connection). The packets which are moved to the "tracked" state in the previous table
[ConntrackTable]).

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackState, priority=200,ct_state=+inv+trk,ip actions=drop

> 2. table=ConntrackState, priority=190,ct_state=-new+trk,ct_mark=0/0x10,ip actions=goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule

Author: In FlexiblePipeline, we use `GoStage`, then the target could only be the first table of `stageEgressSecurity`.

> 2. table=ConntrackState, priority=190,ct_state=-new+trk,ct_mark=0/0x10,ip actions=goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule

Author: > But even AntreaPolicyEgressRule is not the first table in EgressSecurity stage?

`AntreaPolicyEgressRule` is the first table of EgressSecurity stage in K8s pipeline as `EgressSecurityClassifierTable` is not required. `EgressSecurityClassifierTable` is used in external node pipeline.

    packet, with replacing the destination IP address and port with the Endpoint's IP address and port, to table
    [AntreaPolicyEgressRule].
    - Field `commit` means to commit connection to the connection tracking module.
    - Field `table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule` is the table where packets will be forked.
    - Field `zone=65520` is the ct zone where connection will be committed.
    - Field `nat(dst=<ENDPOINT_IP>:<ENDPOINT_PORT>)` is to replace the destination IP and destination port (DNAT).
    - Field `exec` sets some bits of ct mark.
      - `set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark` is to load `ServiceCTMark` (bit 4 of ct mark is 0b1), which indicates that
        packet is from Service connections.
      - `move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]` is load value of `PktSourceField` (bits 0-3 of `NXM_NX_REG0`)
        to `ConnSourceCTMarkField` (bits 0-3 of ct mark).
- Flow 6 is forward the packet which is not matched by flows 1-6 back to table [ServiceLB].
- Flow 7 is the auto-generated flow to match the packet of non-Service connections.

### AntreaPolicyEgressRule

> For this table, you will need to keep in mind the ACNP [specification](#antrea-native-policies-implementation) that we

Author: Not very sure about that, could you help verify that? @GraysonWu @Dyanngg

Antrea, you can dump the flows or groups for a given Node as follows:

```bash
# Dump all flows.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-flows <BRIDGE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

# Dump all groups.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-groups <BRIDGE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]
```

where `<ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME>` is the name of the Antrea Agent Pod running on
that Node and `<BRIDGE_NAME>` is the name of the bridge created by Antrea
(`br-int` by default).

You can also dump the flows of a table or a group on a given Node as follows:-

```bash
# Dump flows of a table.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-flows <BRIDGE_NAME> table=<TABLE_NAME> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]

# Dump a group.
kubectl exec -n kube-system <ANTREA_AGENT_POD_NAME> -c antrea-ovs -- ovs-ofctl dump-groups <BRIDGE_NAME> table=<TABLE_NAME> <GROUP_ID> -O Openflow15 [--no-stats] [--names]
```

where `<TABLE_NAME>` is the name of table name in the pipeline and `<GROUP_ID>`
is the ID of the group.

## Registers

> We use various 32-bit OVS registers to carry information throughout the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: `NXM_NX_XXREG3` is not 32-bit?

Author: No, I remember that it is 128-bit, and we only use it to store IPv6 Endpoint.

| Register      | Field Range | Field Name                | RegMark Value | RegMark Name                    | Description                                                                      |
|---------------|-------------|---------------------------|---------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 0-3    | PktSourceField            | 0x1           | FromTunnelRegMark               | Packet source is tunnel port.                                                    |
| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 0-3    | PktSourceField            | 0x2           | FromGatewayRegMark              | Packet source is Antrea gateway port.                                            |

> | NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 0-3    | PktSourceField            | 0x3           | FromLocalRegMark                | Packet source is local Pod.                                                      |

Reviewer 2: nit: maybe a personal preference, but I feel like it would help a bit with readability if we did not repeat identical values across successive rows, and instead left the cell blank (since merging is not supported). For examples:

| Register      | Field Range | Field Name                | RegMark Value |
|---------------|-------------|---------------------------|---------------|
| NXM_NX_REG0   | bits 0-3    | PktSourceField            | 0x1           |
|   |     |            | 0x2           |
|   |     |            | 0x3           |
|   |     |            | 0x4           |
|   |     |            | 0x5           |
|   |     |            | 0x6           |
|   | bits 4-7    | PktDestinationField     | 0x1           |
|   |     |     | 0x1           |

Author: Much better!

| bit 5       |                       | 0b1          | ConnSNATCTMark     | SNAT is performed on connection for Service.                    |
| bit 6       |                       | 0b1          | HairpinCTMark      | Hairpin connection.                                             |
| bit 7       |                       | 0b1          | L7NPRedirectCTMark | Connection should be redirected to an application-aware engine. |

## CT Labels

| Field Range | Field Name            | CTLabel Value | CTLabel Name | Description                        |
|-------------|-----------------------|---------------|--------------|------------------------------------|
| bits 0-31   | IngressRuleCTLabel    |               |              | Ingress rule ID.                   |
| bits 32-63  | EgressRuleCTLabel     |               |              | Egress rule ID.                    |
| bits 64-75  | L7NPRuleVlanIDCTLabel |               |              | VLAN ID for L7 NetworkPolicy rule. |

## OVS Tables

![OVS pipeline](../assets/ovs-pipeline-antrea-proxy.svg)

### PipelineRootClassifier

> This table serves as the primary entry point in the pipeline, directing packets to different tables based on their

Author: I saw there are 120 chars one line in some documents. I also use 120 chars in this doc.

  - When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy and AntreaProxy is not enabled, packets from local Pods destined to Services
    will first go through the gateway, get load-balanced by the kube-proxy datapath (DNAT) then sent back through the
    gateway. This means that legitimate packets can be received on the gateway port with a source IP belonging to a local
    Pod.
  - When both AntreaProxy and proxyAll are enabled, packets from external destined to Services will be routed to OVS
    through the gateway without changing the source IP of the packets.
  - When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy and AntreaProxy is enabled, packets from external destined to Services will
    get load-balanced by the kube-proxy datapath (DNAT), then be routed to OVS through the gateway without SNAT.
- Flows 2-5 matches regular IP packets from local Pods.
  - Match condition `dl_src=<MAC_ADDRESS>` is to match packets with source MAC address, which corresponds to the MAC
    address of a local Pod.
  - Match condition `nw_src=<IP_ADDRESS>` is to match packets with source IP address, which corresponds to the IP address
    of a local Pod.

>   - Other match conditions and actions are 

Author: Yes

    been done in target OVS group entry after Endpoint selection. However, we set the bits here, for the purpose of
    supporting more Endpoints in an OVS group. Please check PR [#2101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/2101)
    to learn more information.
  - Action `set_field:0xa->reg7` loads the value of group ID to `ServiceGroupIDField` (all bits of `NXM_NX_REG7`), which
    is used by the implementation of NetworkPolicy.
  - Action `group:10` sets the target OVS group. Note that, the target group needs to be created before the flow is created.
- Flow 7 matches the first packet of connection destined to Services whose `service.spec.sessionAffinity` set to `ClientIP`. 
  - Action `set_field:0x30000/0x70000->reg4` is to load `EpToLearnRegMark` (bits 16-18 `NXM_NX_REG4` is 0b011), which
    indicates that Endpoint selection "is performed" and the selection result needs to be cached.
  - Other match conditions and actions are the same with flows 1-6.
- Flow 8 matches the packet previously matched by flow 7 (sending it to the related OVS group to do Endpoint selection

>   and resubmitting it back to this table).This flow will generate a learned flow in table [SessionAffinity] to match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and resubmitting it back to this table). This flow will generate a learned flow in table [SessionAffinity] to match
```

that are created in the Baseline Tier. Antrea-native NetworkPolicies created in the Baseline Tier will be enforced after 
Kubernetes NetworkPolicies, and their egress rules are installed in table [EgressDefault] and [EgressRule] respectively,
i.e.

```text
Antrea-native NetworkPolicy Baseline Tier  ->  EgressDefault
Kubernetes NetworkPolicy                   ->  EgressRule
Antrea-native NetworkPolicy other Tiers    ->  AntreaPolicyEgressRule
```

Antrea-native NetworkPolicy relies on the OVS built-in `conjunction` action to implement policies efficiently. This
enables us to do a conjunctive match across multiple dimensions (source IP, destination IP, port) efficiently without
"exploding" the number of flows. By definition of a conjunctive match, we have at least 2 dimensions. For our use-case
we have at most 3 dimensions.

The only requirements on `conj_id` is for it to be a unique 32-bit integer within the table. At the moment we use a
single custom allocator, which is common to all tables that can have NetworkPolicy flows installed ([AntreaPolicyEgressRule],
[EgressRule], [EgressDefault], [AntreaPolicyIngressRule] , [IngressRule] and [EgressDefault]).

> For this table, you will need to keep in mind the Antrea-native NetworkPolicy [specification]

Author: Will add.

(#antrea-native-networkpolicy-implementation) that we are using. Since the sample Antrea-native NetworkPolicy resides in
the Application tier. If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=64990,ct_state=-new+est,ip actions=goto_table:EgressMetric
2. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=64990,ct_state=-new+rel,ip actions=goto_table:EgressMetric

> 3. table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule, priority=14000,ip,nw_src=10.10.0.7 actions=conjunction(2,1/3)

Author: I removed them. Do you think it is necessary to explain them in this doc?

  - Action `load:0x4000/0x4000->reg0` is to load `SvcNoEpRegMark`, which indicates that the Service has no Endpoint.
  - Action `resubmit(,EndpointDNAT)` resubmits packets to table [EndpointDNAT].

### EndpointDNAT

The table implements DNAT for Service connection after Endpoint selection in table [ServiceLB]

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following::

```text
1. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,reg0=0x4000/0x4000 actions=controller(reason=no_match,id=62373,userdata=04)
2. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,tcp,reg3=0xa0a0007,reg4=0x20050/0x7ffff actions=ct(commit,table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule,zone=65520,nat(dst=10.10.0.7:80),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark,move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))
3. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=200,tcp,reg3=0xa0a0008,reg4=0x20050/0x7ffff actions=ct(commit,table=AntreaPolicyEgressRule,zone=65520,nat(dst=10.10.0.8:80),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark,move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))
4. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=190,reg4=0x20000/0x70000 actions=set_field:0x10000/0x70000->reg4,resubmit(,ServiceLB)
5. table=EndpointDNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule
```

> - Flow 1 matches the first packet of connections destined to any Services that have no Endpoint.

Author: To generate a reject packet.

```text
1. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.253 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
2. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.10.0.1 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
3. table=UnSNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackZone
```

- Flows 1-2 matches reply packets of SNATed Service connections.
  - Match condition `nw_dst=169.254.0.253` is to match packets SNAT'd with a virtual IP.
  - Match condition `nw_dst=10.10.0.1` is to match packets SNAT'd with local Antrea gateway IP. This will also match
    packets which arefrom local Pods destined to local Antrea gateway, but it will not cause any side effect since such
    connections will never be committed in `SNATCtZone`.
  - Action `ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)` is to invoke the `ct` action on matched packets. The packets will be
    forwarded to table [ConntrackZone] and restored the "tracked" state in `SNATCtZone`, like the original IP before SNAT.
- Flow 3 is the default flow to forward packets to table [ConntrackZone].

### Conntrack

This table is used to invoke the `ct` action on packets from all connections. After invoking `ct` action, packets will

> be in the "tracked" state. It's worth noting that when upon invoking `ct` action with `CtZone` to packets that have

Author: The state is not "reset". It is only inaccessible.

the "tracked" state in the previous table [ConntrackTable]).

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackState, priority=200,ct_state=+inv+trk,ip actions=drop
2. table=ConntrackState, priority=190,ct_state=-new+trk,ct_mark=0/0x10,ip actions=goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule
3. table=ConntrackState, priority=190,ct_state=-new+trk,ct_mark=0x10/0x10,ip actions=set_field:0x200/0x200->reg0,goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule
4. table=ConntrackState, priority=0 actions=goto_table:PreRoutingClassifier
```

- Flow 1 drops packets which are reported as invalid by conntrack.
  - Match condition `ct_state=+inv+trk` is to match packets which are reported as invalid by conntrack.
  - Action `drop` is to drop packets.
- Flow 2 matches packets of non-Service connections which are in "tracked" state and committed to connection tracking module.
  - Match condition `ct_state=-new+trk` is to match packets which are tracked in `CtZone` but not new.
  - Match condition `ct_mark=0/0x10` is to match `NotServiceCTMark`, indicating that packets are from non-Service connections.

>   - Action `goto_table:AntreaPolicyEgressRule` is to forward packets to table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] to do egress

Author: For `-new` packets, they should be forwarded to `EgressMetric` for metrics collection purposes.

      port: 80
```

This Kubernetes NetworkPolicy is applied to all Pods with the `nginx` app label in the `default` Namespace. For these
Pods, it only allows TCP traffic on port 80 from and to Pods which also have the `nginx` app label. Because Antrea will
only install OVS flows for this Kubernetes NetworkPolicy on Nodes for which some of the Pods are the target of the
policy, we have scheduled 2 `app:nginx` Pods on the same Node. They received IP addresses `10.10.0.7` and `10.10.0.8`
from the Antrea CNI, so you will see these IP addresses show up in the OVS flows.

## Antrea-native NetworkPolicy Implementation

In addition to the above tables created for Kubernetes NetworkPolicy, Antrea creates additional dedicated tables to

> support the [Antrea-native NetworkPolicy](../antrea-network-policy.md) (table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] and [AntreaPolicyIngressRule]).

Reviewer 2: ditto about the links, there may be other places in the doc as well
doesn't the markdown lint checker give errors about these?

    rule for each local SNAT IP that matches the ID).
  - Actions `set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0` and `goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc` are the same as flows 1-2.
- Flow 6 match packets which are from local Pods selected by an Egress and its SNAT IP of the Egress is configured on
  local Node.
  - Match condition `ct_state=+new+trk` is the same as flow 5.
  - Match condition `nginx-d9-b93cc5` is to match packets from a local Pod.
  - Actions `set_field:0x1/0xff->pkt_mark`, `set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0` and `goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc` are the same as
    flow 5.
- Flow 7 is to drop egress traffic tunnelled from remote Nodes that does not match any SNAT IP configured on local Node.
  - Match condition `ct_state=+new+trk` is the same as flow 5.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x1/0xf` is to match `FromTunnelRegMark`, indicating that packets are from remote Pods through
    tunnel.
- Flow 8 is to match "tracked" but not the first packets from Egress connections and forward them to table [L2ForwardingCalc].
  - Actions `set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0` and `goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc` are the same as flows 1-2.

> Note that, when no Egress applies to Pods on the Node, and no SNAT IP is configured on the Node, [SNATMark] just has

Reviewer 5: Shall we move such notes before the detail introduction on the flows?

4. table=SNATMark, priority=190,ct_state=+new+trk,ip,nw_src=10.10.0.8,nw_dst=10.10.0.8 actions=ct(commit,table=SNAT,zone=65520,exec(set_field:0x20/0x20->ct_mark,set_field:0x40/0x40->ct_mark))
5. table=SNATMark, priority=0 actions=goto_table:SNAT
```

- Flow 1 matches packets whose source and destination are both local Antrea gateway port. Such hair-pin connection should
  be SNAT'd with the virtual Service IP.
  - Match condition `ct_state=+new+trk` is to match the first packet tracked in `CtZone`.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x22/0xff` is to match `FromGatewayRegMark` and `ToGatewayRegMark`, indicating that packets
    are from local Antrea gateway port and also destined to it.
  - Action `ct` is applied to matched packets with the commit parameter in `CtZone` to persist some ct marks.
    - Field `commit` means to commit connection to the connection tracking module. Note that, a packet can be committed
      in the same ct zone multiple times. For Service connections, the first `commit` is performed table [EndpointDNAT].

>     - Field `table=SNAT` is the table where packets will be forwarded.

Reviewer 5: ditto

    - Field `zone=65520` is to commit connection to `CtZone`.
    - Field `exec` is to persist some ct marks.
      - Action `set_field:0x20/0x20->ct_mark` is to load `ConnSNATCTMark`, indicating that the connection requires SNAT.
      - Action `set_field:0x40/0x40->ct_mark` is to load `HairpinCTMark`, indicating that this is a hair-pin connection.

> - Flow 2 matches packets whose source is local Antrea gateway port and destination is a remote Pod. Such connection should

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Flow 2 matches packets which enters OVS from local Antrea gateway and destination is a remote Pod. Such connection should
```

  be SNAT'd with the IP address of local Antrea gateway.
  - Match condition `ct_state=+new+trk` is the same as flow 1.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x12/0xff` is to match `FromGatewayRegMark` and `ToTunnelRegMark`, indicating that packets are
    from local Antrea gateway port and destined to a remote Pod through tunnel.
  - Match condition `reg4=0x200000/0x2200000` is to match `ToExternalAddressRegMark` and `NotDSRServiceRegMark`,
    indicating that packets are destined to a Service's external IP, like NodePort, LoadBalancerIP or ExternalIP, but it
    is not DSR mode.
  - Action `ct` is the same as flow 1 except that `HairpinCTMark` is not loaded since this is not a hair-pin connection.

> - Flow 3-4 match packets whose source and destination are the same local Pod. Such hair-pin connection should be SNAT'd

Reviewer 5: Aren't we SNAT the Pod hair-pin traffic with a link-local IP?

3. table=SNAT, priority=200,ct_state=-new-rpl+trk,ct_mark=0x20/0x20,ip actions=ct(table=L2ForwardingCalc,zone=65521,nat)
4. table=SNAT, priority=190,ct_state=+new+trk,ct_mark=0x20/0x20,ip,reg0=0x2/0xf actions=ct(commit,table=L2ForwardingCalc,zone=65521,nat(src=10.10.0.1),exec(set_field:0x10/0x10->ct_mark))
5. table=SNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
```

- Flow 1 is to match packets from hair-pin connections initiated through the local Antrea gateway port. Such connection
  should be SNAT'd with the virtual Service IP.
  - Match condition `ct_state=+new+trk` is to match the first packet from connections tracked in `CtZone`.
  - Match condition `ct_mark=0x40/0x40` is to match `HairpinCTMark` in `CtZone`, indicating that this is hair-pin connection.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x2/0xf` is to match `FromGatewayRegMark`, indicating that packets from connections initiated
    through the local Antrea gateway port
  - Action `ct` is applied to matched packets with the commit parameter to perform SNAT and persist some ct marks in
    `SNATCtZone`.

>     - Field `commit` means to commit connection to the connection tracking module.

Reviewer 5: ditto

  - Match condition `ct_label=0x7/0xffffffff` is to match `EgressRuleCTLabel` with value 7, which is loaded in table
    [IngressRule], flow 6.
  - Action `goto_table:ConntrackCommit` is the same as flows 1-2.
- Flow 5 matches packets of the sample Antrea-native NetworkPolicy ingress rule with action `Drop` or `Reject`, then
  drop them.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x400/0x400` is to match `APDenyRegMark`, which is loaded in table [AntreaPolicyIngressRule],
    flow 12, indicating that the packets should be denied.
  - Match condition `reg3=0x4` is to match `APConjIDField`, which is loaded in table [AntreaPolicyIngressRule], flow 12
  - Action `drop` is to drop packets.
- Flow 6 is the auto-generated flow.

### ConntrackCommit

This table is in charge of committing all new non-Service connections.

If you dump the flows for this table, you should see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackCommit, priority=200,ct_state=+new+trk-snat,ct_mark=0/0x10,ip actions=ct(commit,table=Output,zone=65520,exec(move:NXM_NX_REG0[0..3]->NXM_NX_CT_MARK[0..3]))
2. table=ConntrackCommit, priority=0 actions=goto_table:Output
```

> - Flow 1 is to match new non-Service connections and commit them to the connection tracking module.

Reviewer 5: Why we don't use "-dnat" state in the flows in this table?

Author: We have a ct mark to distinguish Service packets. The ct mark is sufficient.

```text
1. table=Output, priority=210,ct_mark=0x40/0x40 actions=IN_PORT
2. table=Output, priority=200,reg0=0x200000/0x600000 actions=output:NXM_NX_REG1[]
3. table=Output, priority=200,reg0=0x2400000/0xfe600000 actions=meter:256,controller(reason=no_match,id=62373,userdata=01.01)
4. table=Output, priority=200,reg0=0x4400000/0xfe600000 actions=meter:256,controller(reason=no_match,id=62373,userdata=01.02)
5. table=Output, priority=0 actions=drop
```

- Flow 1 is to output packets from hair-pin connections to the ingress port (where the packets are received).
  - Match condition `ct_mark=0x40/0x40` is to match `HairpinCTMark` loaded in table [SNAT], indicating that packets are
    from hair-pin connections.
  - Action `IN_PORT` is to output packets to the ingress port.
- Flow 2 is to output packets to an OVS port.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x200000/0x600000` is to match `OutputToOFPortRegMark`, indicating that packets should output
    to an OVS port.
  - Action `output:NXM_NX_REG1[]` is to output packets to the OVS port specified by the value stored in
    `TargetOFPortField`, which is loaded in table [L2ForwardingCalc].

> - Flow 3-4 are to output packets to controller (Antrea Agent).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Flow 3-4 are to output packets to OpenFlow controller (Antrea Agent).
```

      port: 80
```

This Kubernetes NetworkPolicy is applied to all Pods with the `nginx` app label in the `default` Namespace. For these
Pods, it only allows TCP traffic on port 80 from and to Pods which also have the `nginx` app label. Because Antrea will

> only install OVS flows for this Kubernetes NetworkPolicy on Nodes for which some of the Pods are the target of the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
only install OVS flows for this Kubernetes NetworkPolicy on Nodes that have Pods selected by the
```

state, restoring all [connection tracking fields](https://www.openvswitch.org/support/dist-docs/ovs-fields.7.txt) (like
`ct_state`, `ct_mark`, `ct_label`, etc.) to their original values, then the packets with "tracked" state will be
forwarded to [ConntrackZone].

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.253 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
2. table=UnSNAT, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=10.10.0.1 actions=ct(table=ConntrackZone,zone=65521,nat)
3. table=UnSNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackZone
```

Flow 1 matches reply packets from SNAT'd Service connections with *Virtual Service IP* `169.254.0.253` and invokes
action `ct` on them. This can be achieved by matching *Virtual Service IP*.

Flow 2 is intended to match packets from SNAT'd Service connections with local Antrea gateway IP `10.10.0.1` and invoke
action `ct` on them. However, this flow also matches request packets destined to local Antrea gateway IP from
local Pods by accident, but this is harmless since such connections will never be committed with `SNATCtZone`, and

> therefore, connection tracking fields for the packets are unset values.

Author: Thanks for reminding

`SNATCtZone`, then the "tracked" state associated with `SNATCtZone` will be inaccessible. This transition occurs because
the "tracked" state shifts to another state associated with `CtZone`. As previously mentioned, a ct zone is similar in
spirit to the more generic Linux network namespaces, uniquely containing a "tracked" state within each ct zone.

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ConntrackZone, priority=200,ip actions=ct(table=ConntrackState,zone=65520,nat)
2. table=ConntrackZone, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackState
```

Flow 1 invokes `ct` action on packets from all connections, then the packets will be forwarded to table
[ConntrackStateTable] with the "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`. For request / reply packets from DNAT'd Service
connections, the destination / source IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP before DNAT.

Flow 2 is table-miss flow that should remain unused.

### ConntrackState

This table handles packets from connections that have "tracked" state associated with `CtZone`. It addresses specific
cases:

1. Drop invalid packets reported by conntrack.

> 2. Forward tracked packets from non-new connections to table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] directly, bypassing the tables for

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Forward tracked sequencing packets from all connections to table [AntreaPolicyEgressRule] directly, bypassing the tables for
```

  appliedTo:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: nginx
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: nginx
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
    - action: Drop
  egress:
    - action: Allow
      to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: nginx
      ports:
        - protocol: TCP
          port: 80
    - action: Reject
```

This ACNP is applied to all Pods with the `app: nginx` label in all Namespaces. For these Pods, it only allows TCP traffic
on port 80 from all Pods with the label `app: nginx` and drop others. In addition to the ingress rules, this policy only
allows egress TCP traffic on port 80 to all Pods with the label `app: nginx` and reject others. Similar to Kubernetes
NetworkPolicy, Antrea will only install OVS flows for this policy on Nodes for which some of the Pods are the target of

> the policy. We still use `app:nginx` Pods mentioned above as the target of this policy.

Reviewer 2: That may be a big change because you already captured the flows for these policies, but I wonder if we should use more meaningful policy examples for the documentation. It doesn't make too much sense to have an ACNP which does pretty much the same thing as the K8s NP, and it also doesn't make sense to have nginx Pods talking to other nginx Pods, as they are both "servers". That second one may be my fault because I probably wrote the original K8s NP example in this doc.
Maybe we can leave it as a future enhancement though, given that this PR has been open for a while.

Author: Make sense. I will update it as you said.

## Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy Implementation

In addition to layer 3 and layer 4 policies mentioned above, [Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy](../antrea-l7-network-policy.md)

> is also supported in Antrea. The only difference is that Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy uses L7 protocol to match traffic, not

Reviewer 2: > Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy uses layer 7 protocol...

for consistency with the rest of the paragraph

> is also supported in Antrea. The only difference is that Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy uses L7 protocol to match traffic, not

Reviewer 2: I would say the "main difference", not the "only difference"

In particular (and you don't need to mention it here), the action of the L7 rule can only be Allow, and if the traffic is sent to the L7 engine for evaluation and the rule doesn't match, it will be dropped (subsequent policy rules will not be evaluated).

layer 3 and layer 4 protocol.

Consider the following Antrea L7 NetworkPolicy (AL7NP) in the Application tier as an example for the remainder of this
document.

```yaml

> apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1beta1

Reviewer 2: same comment as above about this policy not being very meaningful (same podSelector for appliedTo, ingress rule, and egress rule)

you also didn't include a text description of the policy, like you did for other policies

kind: ClusterNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: cnp0
spec:
  priority: 10
  tier: application # defaults to application tier if not specified
  appliedTo:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: nginx
  ingress:
    - action: Allow
      from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: nginx
      l7Protocols:
        - http:
            path: "/api/v2/*"
            host: "foo.bar.com"
            method: "GET"
    - action: Drop
  egress:
    - action: Allow
      to:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              app: nginx
      l7Protocols:
        - http:
            path: "/api/v2/*"
            host: "foo.bar.com"
            method: "GET"
    - action: Reject
```

[TrafficControl](../traffic-control.md) is a CRD API that manages and manipulates the transmission of Pod traffic.

> Antrea creates additional dedicated table [TrafficControl] implement TrafficControl. Use the provided TrafficControls as

Reviewer 2: s/implement/to implement

(and markdown link not rendering)

examples throughout the remainder of this document.

```yaml
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha2
kind: TrafficControl
metadata:
  name: tc-redirect
spec:
  appliedTo:
    podSelector:
      matchLabels:

>         nginx: redirect

Reviewer 2: I don't think `nginx` is a meaningful label name
Even though this is an example, with a sole purpose of matching the CR to the corresponding flows, meaningful examples help the reader understand what's going on more easily

Flow 2 forwards IP packets to table [Classifier].

Flow 3 is the table-miss flow to drop other unsupported protocols, not normally used.

### ARPSpoofGuard

This table drops ARP [spoofing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoofing_attack) packets from local Pods or local Antrea
gateway. We ensure that: the advertised IP and MAC addresses are correct, i.e. match the values configured on the
interface when Antrea set up networking for a local Pod or local Antrea gateway.

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="antrea-gw0",arp_spa=10.10.0.1,arp_sha=ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0 actions=goto_table:ARPResponder
2. table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="nginx-d9-cd1533",arp_spa=10.10.0.7,arp_sha=2e:ba:06:b2:44:91 actions=goto_table:ARPResponder
3. table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=200,arp,in_port="nginx-d9-b93cc5",arp_spa=10.10.0.8,arp_sha=c2:5a:5e:50:95:9b actions=goto_table:ARPResponder
4. table=ARPSpoofGuard, priority=0 actions=drop
```

Flow 1 matches legitimate ARP packets from local Antrea gateway.

Flows 2-3 match legitimate ARP packets from local Pods.

> Flow 4 is the table-miss flow to drop ARP spoofing packets, which are not matched flows 1-4.

Reviewer 2: are not matched _by_ flows 1-4

remote peer gateway (another Node's gateway). This ensures that the local Node can reach any remote Pod, which in particular
is required for Service traffic which has been load-balanced to a remote Pod backend by kube-proxy. Note that the table
is programmed to reply to such ARP requests with a "Global Virtual MAC" ("Global" means it is used by all Antrea OVS
bridges, which is `aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff`), and not with the actual MAC address of the remote gateway. This ensures that
once the traffic is received by the remote OVS bridge, it can be directly forwarded to the appropriate Pod without actually
going through the gateway. The virtual MAC is used as the destination MAC address for all the traffic being tunnelled.

If you dump the flows for this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=ARPResponder, priority=200,arp,arp_tpa=10.10.1.1,arp_op=1 actions=move:NXM_OF_ETH_SRC[]->NXM_OF_ETH_DST[],set_field:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff->eth_src,set_field:2->arp_op,move:NXM_NX_ARP_SHA[]->NXM_NX_ARP_THA[],set_field:aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff->arp_sha,move:NXM_OF_ARP_SPA[]->NXM_OF_ARP_TPA[],set_field:10.10.1.1->arp_spa,IN_PORT
2. table=ARPResponder, priority=190,arp actions=NORMAL

> 3. table=ARPResponder, priority=0 actions=drop

Author: No, but it is generated automatically by Flexible pipeline.

confirmed by dumping the flows:

```text

>  table=EgressDefaultRule, priority=0 actions=resubmit(,EgressMetric)

Reviewer 5: No need to remove the original sample flow

8. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=L3Forwarding, priority=200,ip,reg0=0x200/0x200,nw_dst=10.10.0.8 actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_src,set_field:c2:5a:5e:50:95:9b->eth_dst,goto_table:L3DecTTL
9. cookie=0x2030000000000, table=L3Forwarding, priority=190,ct_mark=0x10/0x10,reg0=0x202/0x20f actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst,set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L3DecTTL
10. cookie=0x2040000000000, table=L3Forwarding, priority=190,ct_state=-rpl+trk,ip,reg0=0x3/0xf,reg4=0/0x100000 actions=goto_table:EgressMark
11. cookie=0x2040000000000, table=L3Forwarding, priority=190,ct_state=-rpl+trk,ip,reg0=0x1/0xf actions=set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst,goto_table:EgressMark
12. cookie=0x2010000000000, table=L3Forwarding, priority=0 actions=set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0,goto_table:L2ForwardingCalc
```

- Flow 1 matches packets destined to local Antrea gateway IP.
  - Match condition `nw_dst=10.10.0.1` is to match packets destined to local gateway IP.
  - Action `set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst` is to rewrite the destination MAC address of packets to the local
    gateway MAC address. Note that, this action is not necessary for Pod-to-gateway request packets because the

>     destination MAC address is already the local gateway MAC address. However, it is used by some feature gates which

Reviewer 5: Please give examples about which feature uses this flow?

    are not enabled by default.
  - Action `set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0` is to load `ToGatewayRegMark` (bits 4-7 of `NXM_NX_REG0` is 0x2), which indicates
    that the output port is local Antrea gateway. 
  - Action `goto_table:L3DecTTL` is to forward packets to table [L3DecTTL] to decrease TTL value.

> - Flow 2 matches reply packets from connections initiated through the local Antrea gateway port, i.e. for which the first

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Flow 2 matches reply packets from connections initiated through the local Antrea gateway, i.e. for which the first
```

    MAC address.
  - Action `goto_table:L3DecTTL` is the same as flow 1.
- Flow 9 is to match packets of Service connections sourced from local Antrea gateway and destined to external network.
  - Match condition `ct_mark=0x10/0x10` is to match `ServiceCTMark` (bit 4 of ct mark is 0x1), indicating packets are
    from Service connections.
  - Match condition `reg0=0x202/0x20f` is to match `RewriteMACRegMark` (bit 9 of `NXM_NX_REG0` is 0x1) and
    `FromGatewayRegMark` (bits 0-3 of `NXM_NX_REG0` is 0x2), indicating packets are from Service connections originated
    from local Antrea gateway.
  - Action `set_field:ba:5e:d1:55:aa:c0->eth_dst` is to rewrite the destination MAC address of packets to the local
    gateway MAC address.
  - Action `set_field:0x20/0xf0->reg0` is to load `ToGatewayRegMark` (bits 4-7 of `NXM_NX_REG0` is 0x2), which indicates
    that the output port is local Antrea gateway.
  - Action `goto_table:L3DecTTL` is the same as flow 1.
- Flow 10 is to match packets that are from local Pods and destined to external network, and send them to table [EgressMark],

>   where SNAT IPs are looked up for the packets.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  where SNAT are performed on the packets.
```

Author: Egress SNAT is not performed in OVS pipeline, and it is performed by iptables.

Reviewer 5: what about 
```
and send them to table [EgressMark] to find the SNAT IPs.
```

5. table=SpoofGuard, priority=0 actions=drop
```

Flow 1 is for case 1, matching packets received on the local Antrea gateway port without checking the source IP and MAC
addresses. There are some cases where the source IP of the packets through the local Antrea gateway port is not the local
Antrea gateway IP address:

- When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy, and `AntreaProxy` is not enabled, packets from local Pods destined for Services
  will first go through the gateway port, get load-balanced by the kube-proxy data path (undergo DNAT with a local Endpoint

>   selected by the kube-proxy) then re-enter through the gateway port. Then the packets are received on the gateway port

Reviewer 2: I may be wrong but I think that is also the case when kube-proxy selects a non-local Endpoint: I don't think kube-proxy will masquerade the traffic and the packet will go back through the gateway to be sent to the remote Pod over the appropriate tunnel. The only exception is the hairpin case.

So maybe replace "undergo DNAT with a local Endpoint selected by the kube-proxy" with "undergoes DNAT", unless I am missing something?

Author: You reminded me. When kube-proxy selects a non-local Endpoint, after DNAT, the packets will be forwarded to antrea-gw0 by the onlink routing added by Antrea NodeController.

Author: Added something to remind the reader like this:

When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy, and `AntreaProxy` is not enabled, packets from local Pods destined for Services
  will first go through the gateway port, get load-balanced by the kube-proxy data path (undergoes DNAT) then re-enter
  the OVS pipeline through the gateway port **(through an "onlink" route directing Pod CIDR traffic to the gateway port)**

  with a source IP belonging to a local Pod.
- When Antrea is deployed without kube-proxy, and both `AntreaProxy` and `proxyAll` are enabled, packets from the external
  network destined for Services will be routed to OVS through the gateway port without changing the source IP.
- When Antrea is deployed with kube-proxy, packets from the external network destined for Services whose

>   `externalTrafficPolicy` is set to `Local` will get load-balanced by the kube-proxy data path (undergo DNAT with a

Reviewer 2: s/undergo/undergoes

3. table=UnSNAT, priority=0 actions=goto_table:ConntrackZone
```

Flow 1 matches reply packets for Service connections which were SNAT'd with the *Virtual Service IP* `169.254.0.253`
and invokes action `ct` on them.

Flow 2 matches packets for Service connections which were SNAT'd with the local Antrea gateway IP `10.10.0.1` and
invokes action `ct` on them. This flow also matches request packets destined for the local Antrea gateway IP from
local Pods by accident. However, this is harmless since such connections will never be committed to `SNATCtZone`, and
therefore, connection tracking fields for the packets are unset.

Flow 3 is the table-miss flow.

For reply packets from SNAT'd connections, whose destination IP is the translated SNAT IP, after invoking action `ct`,
the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP stored in the connection tracking field `ct_nw_dst`

> before SNAT.

Reviewer 2: > the destination IP of the packets will be restored to the original IP before SNAT, stored in the connection tracking field `ct_nw_dst`.

If you dump the flows of this table, you may see the following:

```text
1. table=NodePortMark, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=192.168.77.102 actions=set_field:0x80000/0x80000->reg4
2. table=NodePortMark, priority=200,ip,nw_dst=169.254.0.252 actions=set_field:0x80000/0x80000->reg4
3. table=NodePortMark, priority=0 actions=goto_table:SessionAffinity
```

Flow 1 matches packets destined for the local Node from local Pods. `NodePortRegMark` is loaded, indicating that the

> packets are potentially destined for NodePort Services. We assume only one valid IP address, `192.168.77.102`, can serve

Reviewer 2: `192.168.77.102` (the Node's transport IP)

- The value of `PktSourceField` is persisted to `ConnSourceCTMarkField`, storing the source of the connection for the
  current packet and subsequent packets of the connection.

> Flow 4 is to resubmit the packets which are not matched by flows 1-3 back to table [ServiceLB] to select Endpoint again.

Reviewer 2: We may not have to add more information now as we are close to release time, but is this in case of an inconsistency between the OVS groups used for Endpoint section and this table?

Author: > but is this in case of an inconsistency between the OVS groups used for Endpoint section and this table?

I guess this flow should be rarely used, unless the case you mentioned. Furthermore, it seems that this flows almost exists with AntreaProxy. I am not sure if there are other reasons for this flow.

- Flow 5 is used to match packets with the destination TCP port in set {3306} specified in the rule, constituting the
  third dimension for `conjunction` with `conj_id` 7.
- Flow 6 is used to match packets meeting all the three dimensions of `conjunction` with `conj_id` 7 and forward them

>   to table [EgressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `EgressRuleCTLabel` that will be consumed in table [EgressMetric].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  to table [EgressMetric], persisting `conj_id` to `EgressRuleCTLabel`, which will be consumed in table [EgressMetric].
```

Additionally, `NotAntreaFlexibleIPAMRegMark`, mutually exclusive with `AntreaFlexibleIPAMRegMark` which is used to mark
packets from Antrea IPAM Pods, is used since Egress can only be applied to Node IPAM Pods.

> It's worthy to note that packets sourced from local Pods and destined for the Services listed in the option

Reviewer 2: It's worth noting

> `antreaProxy.skipServices` are unexpectedly matched by flow 8. This occurs due to that there is no flow in [ServiceLB]

Reviewer 2: due to the fact that

to handle these Services. Consequently, the destination IP address of the packets, allocated from the Service CIDR,
is considered part of the "external network". No need to worry about the mismatch, as flow 3 in table [EgressMark]

> is designed to match these packets and bypass them from undergoing SNAT by Egress.

Reviewer 2: s/bypass them/prevent them

```

Flows 1-2 match packets originating from local Pods and destined for the transport IP of remote Nodes, and then forward

> them to table [L2ForwardingCalc] to bypass the Pod-to-Node traffic from Egress SNAT. `ToGatewayRegMark` is loaded,

Reviewer 2: "to bypass the Pod-to-Node traffic from Egress SNAT" should be replaced with "to bypass Egress SNAT for Pod-to-Node traffic"

```

Flows 1-2 match packets originating from local Pods and destined for the transport IP of remote Nodes, and then forward
them to table [L2ForwardingCalc] to bypass Egress SNAT. `ToGatewayRegMark` is loaded, indicating that the output port
of the packets is the local Antrea gateway.

Flow 3 matches packets originating from local Pods and destined for the Services listed in the option
`antreaProxy.skipServices`, and then forwards them to table [L2ForwardingCalc] to bypass Egress SNAT. Similar to flows
1-2, `ToGatewayRegMark` is also loaded.

> The packets, matched by flows 1-3, are forwared to this table by flow 8 in table [L3Forwarding], as they are classified

Reviewer 2: typo: s/forwared/forwarded

as part of traffic destined for the external network. However, these packets are not intended to undergo Egress SNAT.

> Consequently, flows 1-3 are used to bypass Egress SNAT for these packets.

Reviewer 2: Great clarification, thanks

are destined for a Service's external IP, like NodePort, LoadBalancerIP or ExternalIP, but it is not DSR mode.
Additionally, `ConnSNATCTMark`, indicating that the connection requires SNAT, is persisted to mark the connections.

> It's worthy to note that flows 1-2 are specific to `proxyAll`, but it is harmless when `proxyAll` is disabled since

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that flows 1-2 are specific to `proxyAll`, but they are harmless when `proxyAll` is disabled since
```
